For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen. 
Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame. 
Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a secret to another: 
Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away. 
A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver. 
As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear. 
As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters. 
Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain. 
By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone. 
Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it. 
Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee. 
A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow. 
Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint. 
As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart. 
If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink: 
For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee. 
The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue. 
It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house. 
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country. 
A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring. 
It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory. 
He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls. 
As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool. 
As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come. 
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back. 
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. 
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit. 
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage. 
The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth of fools. 
As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth honour to a fool. 
As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouths of fools. 
The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors. 
As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly. 
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him. 
The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets. 
As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed. 
The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth. 
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason. 
He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears. 
As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, 
So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport? 
Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth. 
As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife. 
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. 
Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross. 
He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him; 
When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart. 
Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation. 
Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him. 
A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin. 
