Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? 
Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. 
Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you. 
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you: 
For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 
Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? 
Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? 
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? 
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets. 
Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat: 
Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. 
Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. 
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 
Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. 
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 
Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. 
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. 
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? 
And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity. 
Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: 
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. 
And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: 
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it. 
And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine: 
For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes. 
When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. 
And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 
And Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 
And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him, 
And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. 
And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. 
The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed. 
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 
When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 
And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven. 
But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour. 
And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother laid, and sick of a fever. 
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her: and she arose, and ministered unto them. 
When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that were sick: 
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses. 
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the other side. 
And a certain scribe came, and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 
And Jesus saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. 
And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. 
But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their dead. 
And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him. 
And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep. 
