In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. 
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also. 
And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. 
Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way? 
Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. 
If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. 
Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us. 
Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father? 
Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works. 
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake. 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. 
And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. 
If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it. 
If ye love me, keep my commandments. 
And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; 
Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. 
I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you. 
Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also. 
At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. 
Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world? 
Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. 
He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. 
These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you. 
But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. 
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 
Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I. 
And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe. 
Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me. 
But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence. 
I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. 
Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away: and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 
Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. 
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 
I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing. 
If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. 
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. 
Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. 
As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in my love. 
If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love. 
These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full. 
This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you. 
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. 
Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. 
Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. 
Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. 
These things I command you, that ye love one another. 
If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. 
If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. 
Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. 
