O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. 
Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah. 
As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them. 
Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again. 
Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him. 
I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor. 
Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence. 
Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee. 
Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. 
Set a watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips. 
Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties. 
Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities. 
When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet. 
Our bones are scattered at the grave's mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth. 
But mine eyes are unto thee, O GOD the Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute. 
Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity. 
Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape. 
I cried unto the LORD with my voice; with my voice unto the LORD did I make my supplication. 
I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my trouble. 
When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me. 
I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul. 
I cried unto thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living. 
Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I. 
Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with me. 
Hear my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness. 
And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. 
For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead. 
Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate. 
I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands. 
I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after thee, as a thirsty land. Selah. 
Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit. 
Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee. 
Deliver me, O LORD, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me. 
Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness. 
Quicken me, O LORD, for thy name's sake: for thy righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble. 
And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant. 
Blessed be the LORD my strength which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight: 
My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me. 
LORD, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son of man, that thou makest account of him! 
Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth away. 
Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. 
Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them. 
Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children; 
Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 
I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee. 
It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword. 
Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood: 
That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace: 
That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets: 
That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets. 
