The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doors to the traveller. 
If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom: 
Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the door? 
Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the Almighty would answer me, and that mine adversary had written a book. 
Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, and bind it as a crown to me. 
I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him. 
If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof complain; 
If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life: 
Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley. The words of Job are ended. 
So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. 
Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. 
Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he. 
When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled. 
And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion. 
I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom. 
But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. 
Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand judgment. 
Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion. 
Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say. 
Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job, or that answered his words: 
Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man. 
Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches. 
They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking. 
When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and answered no more;) 
I said, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion. 
For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me. 
Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles. 
I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer. 
Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man. 
For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker would soon take me away. 
Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all my words. 
Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my mouth. 
My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my lips shall utter knowledge clearly. 
The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. 
If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand up. 
Behold, I am according to thy wish in God's stead: I also am formed out of the clay. 
Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee. 
Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words, saying, 
I am clean without transgression, I am innocent; neither is there iniquity in me. 
Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his enemy, 
He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths. 
Behold, in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God is greater than man. 
Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of any of his matters. 
For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not. 
In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; 
Then he openeth the ears of men, and sealeth their instruction, 
That he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man. 
He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword. 
He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude of his bones with strong pain: 
