But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him. 
And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. 
And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. 
And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a Galilaean. 
And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. 
And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. 
And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him. 
And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee? 
And many other things blasphemously spake they against him. 
And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, saying, 
Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 
And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go. 
Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God. 
Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. 
And they said, What need we any further witness? for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth. 
And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate. 
And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King. 
And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it. 
Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man. 
And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place. 
When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. 
And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. 
And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him. 
Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered him nothing. 
And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him. 
And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate. 
And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were at enmity between themselves. 
And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, 
Said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him: 
No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him. 
I will therefore chastise him, and release him. 
(For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.) 
And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas: 
(Who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.) 
Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them. 
But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. 
And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go. 
And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed. 
And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required. 
And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to their will. 
And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus. 
And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him. 
But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children. 
For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck. 
Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. 
For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? 
And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death. 
And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. 
Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. 
