And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this! for he commandeth even the winds and water, and they obey him. 
And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. 
And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. 
When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not. 
(For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness.) 
And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him. 
And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the deep. 
And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them. 
Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were choked. 
When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went and told it in the city and in the country. 
Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid. 
They also which saw it told them by what means he that was possessed of the devils was healed. 
Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great fear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again. 
Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying, 
Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath done unto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him. 
And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him: for they were all waiting for him. 
And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house: 
For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people thronged him. 
And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any, 
Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: and immediately her issue of blood stanched. 
And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me? 
And Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me. 
And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. 
And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace. 
While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Master. 
But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole. 
And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in, save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden. 
And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleepeth. 
And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead. 
And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise. 
And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and he commanded to give her meat. 
And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done. 
Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. 
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 
And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece. 
And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart. 
And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them. 
And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where. 
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen from the dead; 
And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one of the old prophets was risen again. 
And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him. 
And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida. 
And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing. 
And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are here in a desert place. 
But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this people. 
For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company. 
And they did so, and made them all sit down. 
Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude. 
And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets. 
And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am? 
