Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! 
It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments; 
As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the LORD commanded the blessing, even life for evermore. 
Behold, bless ye the LORD, all ye servants of the LORD, which by night stand in the house of the LORD. 
Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the LORD. 
The LORD that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion. 
Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise him, O ye servants of the LORD. 
Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God. 
Praise the LORD; for the LORD is good: sing praises unto his name; for it is pleasant. 
For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure. 
For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods. 
Whatsoever the LORD pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places. 
He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries. 
Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast. 
Who sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants. 
Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings; 
Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan: 
And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people. 
Thy name, O LORD, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations. 
For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants. 
The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. 
They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not; 
They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths. 
They that make them are like unto them: so is every one that trusteth in them. 
Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of Aaron: 
Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the LORD, bless the LORD. 
Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD. 
O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever: 
