Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. 
So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. 
And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. 
Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, 
And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. 
Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. 
For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. 
Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. 
But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, 
And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 
And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my LORD, and I know not where they have laid him. 
And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 
Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master. 
Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God. 
Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the LORD, and that he had spoken these things unto her. 
Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 
And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the LORD. 
Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you. 
And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: 
Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained. 
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. 
The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. 
And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. 
Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing. 
And Thomas answered and said unto him, My LORD and my God. 
Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed. 
And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book: 
But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name. 
After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he himself. 
There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. 
Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing. 
But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. 
Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. 
And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. 
Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did cast himself into the sea. 
And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) dragging the net with fishes. 
As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread. 
Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. 
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken. 
Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord. 
Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise. 
This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that he was risen from the dead. 
So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. 
He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 
He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. 
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. 
This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me. 
Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? 
Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? 
