Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. 
But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil. 
Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth: 
But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. 
And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. 
And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. 
Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away. 
Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. 
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; 
That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. 
For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 
And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the publicans so? 
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. 
Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. 
Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. 
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth: 
That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. 
And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. 
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. 
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. 
Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him. 
After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. 
Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. 
Give us this day our daily bread. 
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. 
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen. 
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: 
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. 
Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. 
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; 
That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. 
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: 
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: 
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 
The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. 
But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness! 
No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. 
Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? 
Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? 
Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature? 
And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: 
And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 
Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? 
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? 
(For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. 
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. 
Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. 
Judge not, that ye be not judged. 
For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. 
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 
