But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. 
But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. 
This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. 
For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. 
And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. 
But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him. 
And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they like? 
They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept. 
For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil. 
The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners! 
But wisdom is justified of all her children. 
And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat. 
And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, 
And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. 
Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner. 
And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on. 
There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. 
And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most? 
Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. 
And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. 
Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet. 
My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. 
Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little. 
And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. 
And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? 
And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace. 
And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him, 
And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, 
And Joanna the wife of Chuza Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance. 
And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable: 
A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. 
And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. 
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. 
And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be? 
And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand. 
Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. 
Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved. 
They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away. 
And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection. 
But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. 
No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light. 
For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest; neither any thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad. 
Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have. 
Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for the press. 
And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see thee. 
And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God, and do it. 
Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth. 
But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. 
And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm. 
