And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. 
Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know: 
Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain: 
Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was not possible that he should be holden of it. 
For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved: 
Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope: 
Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption. 
Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance. 
Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day. 
Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne; 
He seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption. 
This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses. 
Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear. 
For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 
Until I make thy foes thy footstool. 
Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made the same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ. 
Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? 
Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost. 
For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call. 
And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation. 
Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls. 
And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. 
And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. 
And all that believed were together, and had all things common; 
And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need. 
And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, 
Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. 
Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour. 
And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple; 
Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms. 
And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us. 
And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them. 
Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk. 
And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. 
And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God. 
And all the people saw him walking and praising God: 
And they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him. 
And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering. 
And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk? 
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go. 
But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you; 
And killed the Prince of life, whom God hath raised from the dead; whereof we are witnesses. 
And his name through faith in his name hath made this man strong, whom ye see and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all. 
And now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your rulers. 
But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled. 
Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. 
And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you: 
Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began. 
For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you. 
And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people. 
