I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. 
O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. 
O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. 
Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. 
For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. 
And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. 
LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong: thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled. 
I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication. 
What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth? 
Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper. 
Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness; 
To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever. 
In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness. 
Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me. 
For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name's sake lead me, and guide me. 
Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for thou art my strength. 
Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD God of truth. 
I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the LORD. 
I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities; 
And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room. 
Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly. 
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed. 
I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me. 
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel. 
For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life. 
But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my God. 
My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me. 
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy mercies' sake. 
Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave. 
Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. 
Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men! 
Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. 
Blessed be the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city. 
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee. 
O love the LORD, all ye his saints: for the LORD preserveth the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer. 
Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the LORD. 
Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. 
Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile. 
When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. 
For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah. 
I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. 
For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him. 
Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah. 
I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mine eye. 
Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. 
Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the LORD, mercy shall compass him about. 
Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart. 
Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the upright. 
Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. 
Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise. 
