Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense, 
Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breastplate. 
And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them. 
According to all that I shew thee, after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it. 
And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. 
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about. 
And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four corners thereof; and two rings shall be in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it. 
And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold. 
And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them. 
The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it. 
And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. 
And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. 
And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat. 
And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end: even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the two ends thereof. 
And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims be. 
And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. 
And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. 
Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. 
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about. 
And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth round about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about. 
And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof. 
Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the staves to bear the table. 
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them. 
And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: of pure gold shalt thou make them. 
And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway. 
And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same. 
And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side: 
Three bowls made like unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in the six branches that come out of the candlestick. 
And in the candlesticks shall be four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knops and their flowers. 
And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the candlestick. 
Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all it shall be one beaten work of pure gold. 
And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it. 
And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold. 
Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these vessels. 
And look that thou make them after their pattern, which was shewed thee in the mount. 
Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them. 
The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains shall have one measure. 
The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and other five curtains shall be coupled one to another. 
And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thou make in the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of the second. 
Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second; that the loops may take hold one of another. 
And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains together with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering upon the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make. 
The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of one measure. 
And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tabernacle. 
And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second. 
And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one. 
And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the backside of the tabernacle. 
And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of that which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, it shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it. 
And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering above of badgers' skins. 
And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up. 
