John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there standeth one among you, whom ye know not; 
He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. 
These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing. 
The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. 
This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me. 
And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. 
And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. 
And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. 
And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God. 
Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples; 
And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God! 
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. 
Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou? 
He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was about the tenth hour. 
One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. 
He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ. 
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone. 
The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me. 
Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. 
Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 
And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see. 
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! 
Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. 
Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel. 
Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these. 
And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man. 
And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there: 
And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage. 
And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. 
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come. 
His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. 
And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece. 
Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. 
And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it. 
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, 
And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the good wine until now. 
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him. 
After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days. 
And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting: 
And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables; 
And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father's house an house of merchandise. 
And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. 
Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? 
Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 
Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days? 
But he spake of the temple of his body. 
When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them; and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said. 
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did. 
But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all men, 
