And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them. 
And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way. 
And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country. 
And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming. 
And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel. 
For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master: therefore she took a vail, and covered herself. 
And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done. 
And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. 
Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah. 
And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. 
And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. 
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. 
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. 
But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. 
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years. 
Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people. 
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre; 
The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife. 
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi. 
Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham: 
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations. 
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people. 
And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his brethren. 
And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac: 
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian. 
And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. 
And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD. 
And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger. 
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. 
And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau. 
And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them. 
And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents. 
And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob. 
And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was faint: 
And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom. 
And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. 
And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me? 
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob. 
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his birthright. 
And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar. 
And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 
Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; 
Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. 
And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 
And the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon. 
And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife. 
