And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven. 
And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand? 
And he cometh to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him. 
And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the town; and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw ought. 
And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking. 
After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him look up: and he was restored, and saw every man clearly. 
And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town. 
And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea Philippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Whom do men say that I am? 
And they answered, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets. 
And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ. 
And he charged them that they should tell no man of him. 
And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. 
And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him. 
But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men. 
And when he had called the people unto him with his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 
For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it. 
For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? 
Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? 
Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. 
And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That there be some of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come with power. 
And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves: and he was transfigured before them. 
And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; so as no fuller on earth can white them. 
And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were talking with Jesus. 
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias. 
For he wist not what to say; for they were sore afraid. 
And there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him. 
And suddenly, when they had looked round about, they saw no man any more, save Jesus only with themselves. 
And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead. 
And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean. 
And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must first come? 
And he answered and told them, Elias verily cometh first, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of the Son of man, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought. 
But I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have done unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him. 
And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning with them. 
And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him. 
And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them? 
And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit; 
And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out; and they could not. 
He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me. 
And they brought him unto him: and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tare him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming. 
And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child. 
And ofttimes it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters, to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us. 
Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. 
And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said with tears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. 
When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him. 
And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him: and he was as one dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead. 
But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up; and he arose. 
And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out? 
And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting. 
And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and he would not that any man should know it. 
For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. 
