Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer. 
He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the LORD shall be made fat. 
He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered. 
He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse. 
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase. 
He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. 
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn. 
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance. 
The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it. 
A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet. 
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice. 
The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked regardeth not to know it. 
Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath. 
If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest. 
The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul. 
A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards. 
If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked. 
The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the LORD lighteneth both their eyes. 
The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever. 
The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. 
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall. 
Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul. 
Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he. 
A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer. 
Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him. 
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length. 
An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression. 
A man's pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit. 
Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not. 
The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be safe. 
Many seek the ruler's favour; but every man's judgment cometh from the LORD. 
An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked. 
The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, even the prophecy: the man spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal, 
Surely I am more brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of a man. 
I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy. 
Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou canst tell? 
Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. 
Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar. 
Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die: 
Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me: 
Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain. 
Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty. 
There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother. 
There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness. 
There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up. 
There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men. 
The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four things say not, It is enough: 
The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not filled with water; and the fire that saith not, It is enough. 
The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it. 
There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not: 
