And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things. 
And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people; (and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. 
And of the rest durst no man join himself to them: but the people magnified them. 
And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women.) 
Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them. 
There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed every one. 
Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, (which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with indignation, 
And laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison. 
But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth, and said, 
Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life. 
And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. 
But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and told, 
Saying, The prison truly found we shut with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors: but when we had opened, we found no man within. 
Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these things, they doubted of them whereunto this would grow. 
Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people. 
Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been stoned. 
And when they had brought them, they set them before the council: and the high priest asked them, 
Saying, Did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us. 
Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. 
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree. 
Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins. 
And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him. 
When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them. 
Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space; 
And said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. 
For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered, and brought to nought. 
After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. 
And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought: 
But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God. 
And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. 
And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. 
And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. 
And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. 
Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables. 
Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. 
But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word. 
And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a proselyte of Antioch: 
Whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. 
And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. 
And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people. 
Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the synagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen. 
And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake. 
Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God. 
And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to the council, 
And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law: 
For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us. 
And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel. 
Then said the high priest, Are these things so? 
And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran, 
And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee. 
