Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. 
Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. 
And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. 
Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him; 
Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins. 
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, 
Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied. 
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, 
To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, 
Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. 
Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations: 
That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ: 
Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory: 
Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls. 
Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you: 
Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow. 
Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven; which things the angels desire to look into. 
Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ; 
As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance: 
But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation; 
Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy. 
And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear: 
Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers; 
But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot: 
Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you, 
Who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory; that your faith and hope might be in God. 
Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently: 
Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever. 
For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away: 
But the word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. 
Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, all evil speakings, 
As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: 
If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. 
To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, and precious, 
Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. 
Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. 
Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, 
And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed. 
But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light; 
Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. 
Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; 
Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. 
Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be to the king, as supreme; 
Or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well. 
For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: 
As free, and not using your liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. 
Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king. 
Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. 
For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully. 
For what glory is it, if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. 
