For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet. 
I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me. 
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture. 
But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee to help me. 
Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog. 
Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns. 
I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. 
Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel. 
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard. 
My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him. 
The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever. 
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. 
For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the nations. 
All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul. 
A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation. 
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this. 
The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want. 
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters. 
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. 
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. 
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. 
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever. 
The earth is the LORD's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. 
For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods. 
Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy place? 
He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. 
He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness from the God of his salvation. 
This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah. 
Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 
Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle. 
Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in. 
Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah. 
Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul. 
O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me. 
Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause. 
Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths. 
Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day. 
Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses; for they have been ever of old. 
Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O LORD. 
Good and upright is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in the way. 
The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way. 
All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. 
For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it is great. 
What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose. 
His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth. 
The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant. 
Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net. 
Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and afflicted. 
The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my distresses. 
Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins. 
