Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me. 
Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? 
This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true. 
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen. 
The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach, 
Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen: 
To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God: 
And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. 
For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. 
When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? 
And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power. 
But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. 
And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight. 
And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; 
Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. 
Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey. 
And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas the brother of James. 
These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. 
And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples, and said, (the number of names together were about an hundred and twenty,) 
Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus. 
For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry. 
Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out. 
And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood. 
For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another take. 
Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 
Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection. 
And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. 
And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen, 
That he may take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place. 
And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. 
And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. 
And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. 
And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. 
And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. 
And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven. 
Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language. 
And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans? 
And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born? 
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia, 
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes, 
Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God. 
And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this? 
Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine. 
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words: 
For these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day. 
But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel; 
And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams: 
And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy: 
And I will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke: 
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and notable day of the Lord come: 
