Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish. 
A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn. 
A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved. 
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones. 
The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit. 
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them. 
The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand. 
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised. 
He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread. 
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. 
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding. 
The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit. 
The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble. 
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him. 
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise. 
A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame. 
He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit. 
There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health. 
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy. 
There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief. 
Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight. 
A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness. 
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute. 
Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad. 
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them. 
The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious. 
In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof there is no death. 
A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke. 
A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence. 
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction. 
The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat. 
A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame. 
Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner. 
There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches. 
The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke. 
The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out. 
Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom. 
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase. 
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life. 
Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded. 
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death. 
Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard. 
Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly. 
A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health. 
Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured. 
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil. 
He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed. 
Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed. 
A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just. 
