For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against God. 
Elihu spake moreover, and said, 
Thinkest thou this to be right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God's? 
For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin? 
I will answer thee, and thy companions with thee. 
Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds which are higher than thou. 
If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him? 
If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine hand? 
Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy righteousness may profit the son of man. 
By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty. 
But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the night; 
Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven? 
There they cry, but none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men. 
Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it. 
Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is before him; therefore trust thou in him. 
But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger; yet he knoweth it not in great extremity: 
Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge. 
Elihu also proceeded, and said, 
Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that I have yet to speak on God's behalf. 
I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. 
For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in knowledge is with thee. 
Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength and wisdom. 
He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor. 
He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings are they on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted. 
And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of affliction; 
Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded. 
He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity. 
If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures. 
But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge. 
But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he bindeth them. 
They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean. 
He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression. 
Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which should be set on thy table should be full of fatness. 
But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on thee. 
Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee. 
Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of strength. 
Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place. 
Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction. 
Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him? 
Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity? 
Remember that thou magnify his work, which men behold. 
Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off. 
Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out. 
For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof: 
Which the clouds do drop and distil upon man abundantly. 
Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the noise of his tabernacle? 
Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it, and covereth the bottom of the sea. 
For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance. 
With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it not to shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt. 
The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapour. 
