God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? 
Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? 
Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. 
For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection: 
Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. 
For he that is dead is freed from sin. 
Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him: 
Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him. 
For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. 
Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof. 
Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. 
For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace. 
What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid. 
Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness? 
But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you. 
Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. 
I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness. 
For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. 
What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death. 
But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life. 
For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. 
Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth? 
For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband. 
So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead, she is free from that law; so that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man. 
Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God. 
For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death. 
But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter. 
What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. 
But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead. 
For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. 
And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death. 
For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me. 
Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good. 
Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful. 
For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin. 
For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not; but what I hate, that do I. 
If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good. 
Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. 
For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not. 
For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do. 
Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. 
I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me. 
For I delight in the law of God after the inward man: 
But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. 
O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death? 
I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin. 
There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. 
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death. 
For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: 
