Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies. 
Princes also did sit and speak against me: but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. 
Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.leth. 
My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word. 
I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes. 
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works. 
My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word. 
Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously. 
I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid before me. 
I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame. 
I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart. 
Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it unto the end. 
Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. 
Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight. 
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness. 
Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy way. 
Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear. 
Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments are good. 
Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness. 
Let thy mercies come also unto me, O LORD, even thy salvation, according to thy word. 
So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word. 
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments. 
So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever. 
And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts. 
I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed. 
And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved. 
My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes. 
Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope. 
This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me. 
The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from thy law. 
I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted myself. 
Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law. 
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. 
I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept thy law. 
This I had, because I kept thy precepts. 
Thou art my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep thy words. 
I intreated thy favour with my whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word. 
I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies. 
I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments. 
The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten thy law. 
At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments. 
I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts. 
The earth, O LORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes. 
Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O LORD, according unto thy word. 
Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments. 
Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word. 
Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes. 
The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart. 
Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in thy law. 
It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. 
