Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry; 
But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house. 
But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. 
A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away. 
For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. 
He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts. 
My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee. 
Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye. 
Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart. 
Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy kinswoman: 
That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger which flattereth with her words. 
For at the window of my house I looked through my casement, 
And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding, 
Passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house, 
In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night: 
And, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart. 
(She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house: 
Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.) 
So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him, 
I have peace offerings with me; this day have I payed my vows. 
Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee. 
I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works, with fine linen of Egypt. 
I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. 
Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us solace ourselves with loves. 
For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey: 
He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day appointed. 
With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she forced him. 
He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks; 
Till a dart strike through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for his life. 
Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the words of my mouth. 
Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths. 
For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have been slain by her. 
Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death. 
Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice? 
She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths. 
She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors. 
Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man. 
O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart. 
Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right things. 
For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. 
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing froward or perverse in them. 
They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. 
Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold. 
For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it. 
I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions. 
The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate. 
Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength. 
By me kings reign, and princes decree justice. 
By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth. 
I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me. 
