The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid. 
Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness. 
For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it cannot bear: 
For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he is filled with meat; 
For an odious woman when she is married; and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress. 
There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise: 
The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer; 
The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks; 
The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands; 
The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings' palaces. 
There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in going: 
A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any; 
A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against whom there is no rising up. 
If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth. 
Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife. 
The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him. 
What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of my vows? 
Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings. 
It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink: 
Lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted. 
Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts. 
Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more. 
Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction. 
Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy. 
Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies. 
The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. 
She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. 
She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. 
She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. 
She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. 
She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. 
She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. 
She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. 
She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. 
She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. 
She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. 
She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. 
Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. 
She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. 
Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. 
She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. 
She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. 
Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. 
Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. 
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the LORD, she shall be praised. 
Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates. 
The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. 
Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity. 
What profit hath a man of all his labour which he taketh under the sun? 
One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth abideth for ever. 
