He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes; 
Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm. 
Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread. 
He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant: 
Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron: 
Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried him. 
The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free. 
He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance: 
To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom. 
Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies. 
He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants. 
He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen. 
They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham. 
He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word. 
He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. 
Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings. 
He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts. 
He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land. 
He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts. 
He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number, 
And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground. 
He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength. 
He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes. 
Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them. 
He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night. 
The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. 
He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river. 
For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant. 
And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness: 
And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people; 
That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the LORD. 
Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? who can shew forth all his praise? 
Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times. 
Remember me, O LORD, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation; 
That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance. 
We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. 
Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea. 
Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known. 
He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness. 
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 
And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left. 
Then believed they his words; they sang his praise. 
They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel: 
But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. 
And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul. 
They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the LORD. 
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram. 
And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked. 
