And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. 
Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God had raised, to go up to build the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem. 
And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and with precious things, beside all that was willingly offered. 
Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the LORD, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and had put them in the house of his gods; 
Even those did Cyrus king of Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them unto Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah. 
And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, a thousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty knives, 
Thirty basons of gold, silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten, and other vessels a thousand. 
All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up with them of the captivity that were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem. 
Now these are the children of the province that went up out of the captivity, of those which had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon, and came again unto Jerusalem and Judah, every one unto his city; 
Which came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two. 
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. 
The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy and five. 
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve. 
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty and five. 
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore. 
The children of Bani, six hundred forty and two. 
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three. 
The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two. 
The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six. 
The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six. 
The children of Adin, four hundred fifty and four. 
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. 
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three. 
The children of Jorah, an hundred and twelve. 
The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three. 
The children of Gibbar, ninety and five. 
The children of Bethlehem, an hundred twenty and three. 
The men of Netophah, fifty and six. 
The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight. 
The children of Azmaveth, forty and two. 
The children of Kirjatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three. 
The children of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one. 
The men of Michmas, an hundred twenty and two. 
The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty and three. 
The children of Nebo, fifty and two. 
The children of Magbish, an hundred fifty and six. 
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and five. 
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five. 
The children of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty. 
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. 
The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. 
The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven. 
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy and four. 
The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred twenty and eight. 
The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all an hundred thirty and nine. 
