According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. 
For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 
Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble; 
Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. 
If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. 
If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire. 
Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 
If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. 
Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. 
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. 
And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain. 
Therefore let no man glory in men. For all things are your's; 
Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are your's; 
And ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's. 
Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God. 
Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful. 
But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self. 
For I know nothing by myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but he that judgeth me is the Lord. 
Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts: and then shall every man have praise of God. 
And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes; that ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against another. 
For who maketh thee to differ from another? and what hast thou that thou didst not receive? now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory, as if thou hadst not received it? 
Now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us: and I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign with you. 
For I think that God hath set forth us the apostles last, as it were appointed to death: for we are made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men. 
We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ; we are weak, but ye are strong; ye are honourable, but we are despised. 
Even unto this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwellingplace; 
And labour, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it: 
Being defamed, we intreat: we are made as the filth of the world, and are the offscouring of all things unto this day. 
I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you. 
For though ye have ten thousand instructers in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. 
Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me. 
For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ, as I teach every where in every church. 
Now some are puffed up, as though I would not come to you. 
But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know, not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power. 
For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. 
What will ye? shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love, and in the spirit of meekness? 
It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife. 
And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you. 
For I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already, as though I were present, concerning him that hath so done this deed, 
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
To deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? 
Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us: 
Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. 
I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators: 
Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous, or extortioners, or with idolaters; for then must ye needs go out of the world. 
But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolator, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such an one no not to eat. 
For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? do not ye judge them that are within? 
But them that are without God judgeth. Therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person. 
Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints? 
Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? 
