Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction. 
The rich man's wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their poverty. 
The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin. 
He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth. 
He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander, is a fool. 
In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips is wise. 
The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth. 
The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom. 
The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it. 
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom. 
The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted. 
As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation. 
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him. 
The fear of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened. 
The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish. 
The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity. 
The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth. 
The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward tongue shall be cut out. 
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness. 
A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight. 
When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom. 
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them. 
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death. 
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness. 
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness. 
When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth. 
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead. 
An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered. 
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting. 
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. 
He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace. 
A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter. 
Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety. 
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hateth suretiship is sure. 
A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches. 
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh. 
The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward. 
As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death. 
They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the LORD: but such as are upright in their way are his delight. 
Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered. 
As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion. 
The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath. 
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty. 
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself. 
He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it. 
He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him. 
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a branch. 
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart. 
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise. 
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner. 
