She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. 
Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour. 
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. 
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her. 
The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens. 
By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew. 
My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion: 
So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck. 
Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble. 
When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. 
Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh. 
For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken. 
Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it. 
Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee. 
Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. 
Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. 
Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways. 
For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is with the righteous. 
The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just. 
Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly. 
The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools. 
Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding. 
For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law. 
For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother. 
He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words: keep my commandments, and live. 
Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth. 
Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee. 
Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding. 
Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her. 
She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee. 
Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many. 
I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths. 
When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble. 
Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life. 
Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men. 
Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away. 
For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall. 
For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. 
But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. 
The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble. 
My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings. 
Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart. 
For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. 
Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life. 
Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee. 
Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. 
Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established. 
Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil. 
My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding: 
That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge. 
