That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works. 
I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom; 
Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. 
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears; 
And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. 
But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. 
For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. 
I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: 
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing. 
Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me: 
For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus unto Dalmatia. 
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for he is profitable to me for the ministry. 
And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus. 
The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments. 
Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord reward him according to his works: 
Of whom be thou ware also; for he hath greatly withstood our words. 
At my first answer no man stood with me, but all men forsook me: I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge. 
Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, and strengthened me; that by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. 
And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus. 
Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick. 
Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren. 
The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you. Amen. 
Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness; 
In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began; 
But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour; 
To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour. 
For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee: 
If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly. 
For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre; 
But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate; 
Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers. 
For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision: 
Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake. 
One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, the Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies. 
This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith; 
Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth. 
Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled. 
They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate. 
But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine: 
That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience. 
The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things; 
That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, 
To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. 
Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded. 
In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, 
Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you. 
Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again; 
Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things. 
For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, 
