The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. 
Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. 
They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word. 
I know, O LORD, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. 
Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant. 
Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight. 
Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts. 
Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies. 
Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed. 
My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word. 
Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me? 
For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget thy statutes. 
How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? 
The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after thy law. 
All thy commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me. 
They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts. 
Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth. 
For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven. 
Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth. 
They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants. 
Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction. 
I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me. 
I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts. 
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies. 
I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is exceeding broad. 
O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day. 
Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me. 
I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation. 
I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. 
I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word. 
I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me. 
How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth! 
Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way. 
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path. 
I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. 
I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto thy word. 
Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me thy judgments. 
My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law. 
The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts. 
Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart. 
I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even unto the end. 
I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love. 
Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word. 
Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God. 
Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope. 
Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually. 
Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit is falsehood. 
Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love thy testimonies. 
My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments. 
I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors. 
