For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil: 
But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. 
Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell. 
Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them. 
Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth. 
Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house: 
Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel: 
Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger; 
And thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, 
And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof; 
And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me! 
I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly. 
Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well. 
Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in the streets. 
Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee. 
Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth. 
Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love. 
And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger? 
For the ways of man are before the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings. 
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins. 
He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray. 
My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger, 
Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. 
Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend. 
Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids. 
Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler. 
Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise: 
Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, 
Provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. 
How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? 
Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep: 
So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man. 
A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth. 
He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers; 
Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually; he soweth discord. 
Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy. 
These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him: 
A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, 
An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, 
A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. 
My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother: 
Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck. 
When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. 
For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life: 
To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. 
Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids. 
For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread: and the adultress will hunt for the precious life. 
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned? 
Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned? 
So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. 
