And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God. 
And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar, 
And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. 
And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. 
But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? 
And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss. 
And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. 
And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise. 
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. 
And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. 
And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost. 
Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. 
And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned. 
And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things. 
And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he was a good man, and a just: 
(The same had not consented to the counsel and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who also himself waited for the kingdom of God. 
This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. 
And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid. 
And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on. 
And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid. 
And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment. 
Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. 
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. 
And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. 
And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: 
And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? 
He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, 
Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. 
And they remembered his words, 
And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. 
It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. 
And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. 
Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. 
And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. 
And they talked together of all these things which had happened. 
And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. 
But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. 
And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? 
And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? 
And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: 
And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. 
But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. 
Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; 
And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. 
And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not. 
Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: 
Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? 
And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. 
And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further. 
