Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field: 
Which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. 
Another parable spake he unto them; The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened. 
All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and without a parable spake he not unto them: 
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world. 
Then Jesus sent the multitude away, and went into the house: and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field. 
He answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of man; 
The field is the world; the good seed are the children of the kingdom; but the tares are the children of the wicked one; 
The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels. 
As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world. 
The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity; 
And shall cast them into a furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 
Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field. 
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man, seeking goodly pearls: 
Who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it. 
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: 
Which, when it was full, they drew to shore, and sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away. 
So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, 
And shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 
Jesus saith unto them, Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea, Lord. 
Then said he unto them, Therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old. 
And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence. 
And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? 
Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? 
And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? 
And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. 
And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. 
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus, 
And said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him. 
For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife. 
For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. 
And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. 
But when Herod's birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod. 
Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask. 
And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger. 
And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given her. 
And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. 
And his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to her mother. 
And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus. 
When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart: and when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities. 
And Jesus went forth, and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. 
And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals. 
But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart; give ye them to eat. 
And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two fishes. 
He said, Bring them hither to me. 
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. 
And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full. 
And they that had eaten were about five thousand men, beside women and children. 
And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the multitudes away. 
