He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee. 
In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the power of the sword. 
Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh. 
At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth. 
For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee. 
And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin. 
Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine offspring as the grass of the earth. 
Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season. 
Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it for thy good. 
But Job answered and said, 
Oh that my grief were throughly weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together! 
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are swallowed up. 
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array against me. 
Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over his fodder? 
Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egg? 
The things that my soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat. 
Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the thing that I long for! 
Even that it would please God to destroy me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off! 
Then should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One. 
What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end, that I should prolong my life? 
Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass? 
Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me? 
To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty. 
My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream of brooks they pass away; 
Which are blackish by reason of the ice, and wherein the snow is hid: 
What time they wax warm, they vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place. 
The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and perish. 
The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them. 
They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither, and were ashamed. 
For now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid. 
Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your substance? 
Or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand? or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty? 
Teach me, and I will hold my tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred. 
How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove? 
Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is desperate, which are as wind? 
Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless, and ye dig a pit for your friend. 
Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident unto you if I lie. 
Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my righteousness is in it. 
Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse things? 
Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not his days also like the days of an hireling? 
As a servant earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the reward of his work: 
So am I made to possess months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed to me. 
When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone? and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day. 
My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken, and become loathsome. 
My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope. 
O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good. 
The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes are upon me, and I am not. 
As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down to the grave shall come up no more. 
He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more. 
Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. 
