Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! 
And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing. 
They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters; 
These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep. 
For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof. 
They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble. 
They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit's end. 
Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. 
He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. 
Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven. 
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! 
Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders. 
He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground; 
A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. 
He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings. 
And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation; 
And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase. 
He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease. 
Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow. 
He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way. 
Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock. 
The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. 
Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the LORD. 
O god, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. 
Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early. 
I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. 
For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds. 
Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth; 
That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me. 
God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. 
Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver; 
Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph. 
Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? 
Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts? 
Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man. 
Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies. 
Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise; 
For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue. 
They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause. 
For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer. 
And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 
Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand. 
When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin. 
Let his days be few; and let another take his office. 
Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 
Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places. 
Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour. 
Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children. 
Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out. 
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
