Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred. 
O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in thee. 
Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee. 
Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles. 
Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide. 
Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart. 
For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in thy truth. 
I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers. 
I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked. 
I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine altar, O LORD: 
That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all thy wondrous works. 
LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth. 
Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men: 
In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes. 
But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be merciful unto me. 
My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I bless the LORD. 
The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? 
When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. 
Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. 
One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple. 
For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock. 
And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD. 
Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me. 
When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, LORD, will I seek. 
Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. 
When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up. 
Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies. 
Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty. 
I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living. 
Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD. 
Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. 
Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. 
Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in their hearts. 
Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert. 
Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up. 
Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications. 
The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him. 
The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed. 
Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up for ever. 
Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and strength. 
Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness. 
The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters. 
The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty. 
The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh the cedars of Lebanon. 
He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn. 
The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire. 
The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh. 
The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory. 
The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for ever. 
The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless his people with peace. 
