Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also: 
Seeing it is one God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith. 
Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the law. 
What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found? 
For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory; but not before God. 
For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. 
Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. 
But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. 
Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works, 
Saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered. 
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. 
Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon the uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness. 
How was it then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision. 
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised: that he might be the father of all them that believe, though they be not circumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also: 
And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised. 
For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. 
For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect: 
Because the law worketh wrath: for where no law is, there is no transgression. 
Therefore it is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who is the father of us all, 
(As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations,) before him whom he believed, even God, who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were. 
Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be. 
And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead, when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb: 
He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; 
And being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform. 
And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. 
Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him; 
But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead; 
Who was delivered for our offences, and was raised again for our justification. 
Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ: 
By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. 
And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience; 
And patience, experience; and experience, hope: 
And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us. 
For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. 
For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. 
But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. 
Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. 
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. 
And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. 
Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned: 
(For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when there is no law. 
Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come. 
But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many. 
And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift: for the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offences unto justification. 
For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.) 
Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. 
For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. 
Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound: 
That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. 
What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? 
