Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy: yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God. 
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God. 
We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old. 
How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out. 
For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them. 
Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob. 
Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. 
For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me. 
But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us. 
In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever. Selah. 
But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies. 
Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves. 
Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen. 
Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy wealth by their price. 
Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us. 
Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people. 
My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me, 
For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger. 
All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. 
Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way; 
Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death. 
If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god; 
Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart. 
Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter. 
Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for ever. 
Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression? 
For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth. 
Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake. 
My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer. 
Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever. 
Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty. 
And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. 
Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; whereby the people fall under thee. 
Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre. 
Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 
All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad. 
Kings' daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir. 
Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father's house; 
So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord; and worship thou him. 
And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour. 
The king's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of wrought gold. 
She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee. 
With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king's palace. 
Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth. 
I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever. 
God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. 
Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea; 
Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah. 
There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High. 
God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, and that right early. 
