For, lo, thine enemies, O LORD, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. 
But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil. 
Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me. 
The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 
Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in the courts of our God. 
They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing; 
To shew that the LORD is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him. 
The LORD reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the LORD is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself: the world also is stablished, that it cannot be moved. 
Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting. 
The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their waves. 
The LORD on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea. 
Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house, O LORD, for ever. 
O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself. 
Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud. 
LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph? 
How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves? 
They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine heritage. 
They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless. 
Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it. 
Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise? 
He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see? 
He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know? 
The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity. 
Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest him out of thy law; 
That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked. 
For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. 
But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it. 
Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? 
Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence. 
When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up. 
In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul. 
Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law? 
They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. 
But the LORD is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge. 
And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, the LORD our God shall cut them off. 
O come, let us sing unto the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. 
Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. 
For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods. 
In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also. 
The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land. 
O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD our maker. 
For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice, 
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness: 
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. 
Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways: 
Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest. 
O sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD, all the earth. 
Sing unto the LORD, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day. 
Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. 
For the LORD is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods. 
