Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day. 
For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob. 
This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not. 
I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots. 
Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah. 
Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me; 
There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god. 
I am the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. 
But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me. 
So I gave them up unto their own hearts' lust: and they walked in their own counsels. 
Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways! 
I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries. 
The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever. 
He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee. 
God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among the gods. 
How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah. 
Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy. 
Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked. 
They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course. 
I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High. 
But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes. 
Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all nations. 
Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God. 
For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. 
They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones. 
They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. 
For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee: 
The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes; 
Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre; 
Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah. 
Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison: 
Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth. 
Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna: 
Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession. 
O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind. 
As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire; 
So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm. 
Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O LORD. 
Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish: 
That men may know that thou, whose name alone is JEHOVAH, art the most high over all the earth. 
How amiable are thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts! 
My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the LORD: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. 
Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O LORD of hosts, my King, and my God. 
Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee. Selah. 
Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are the ways of them. 
Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools. 
They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. 
O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah. 
Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. 
For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. 
