He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so. 
And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. 
His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry. 
But he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, save they to whom it is given. 
For there are some eunuchs, which were so born from their mother's womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it. 
Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them. 
But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven. 
And he laid his hands on them, and departed thence. 
And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? 
And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. 
He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, 
Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? 
Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me. 
But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. 
Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. 
And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
When his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved? 
But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible. 
Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall we have therefore? 
And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 
And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life. 
But many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first. 
For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard. 
And when he had agreed with the labourers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. 
And he went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace, 
And said unto them; Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way. 
Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise. 
And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? 
They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive. 
So when even was come, the lord of the vineyard saith unto his steward, Call the labourers, and give them their hire, beginning from the last unto the first. 
And when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. 
But when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more; and they likewise received every man a penny. 
And when they had received it, they murmured against the goodman of the house, 
Saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the day. 
But he answered one of them, and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong: didst not thou agree with me for a penny? 
Take that thine is, and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee. 
Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good? 
So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many be called, but few chosen. 
And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples apart in the way, and said unto them, 
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, 
And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify him: and the third day he shall rise again. 
Then came to him the mother of Zebedees children with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him. 
And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom. 
But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say unto him, We are able. 
And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with: but to sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father. 
And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. 
But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. 
But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; 
And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: 
