Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me. 
Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness. 
Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes. 
I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies. 
It is time for thee, LORD, to work: for they have made void thy law. 
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold. 
Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way. 
Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them. 
The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. 
I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments. 
Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name. 
Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. 
Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts. 
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes. 
Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law. 
Righteous art thou, O LORD, and upright are thy judgments. 
Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful. 
My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words. 
Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it. 
I am small and despised: yet do not I forget thy precepts. 
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth. 
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights. 
The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live. 
I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy statutes. 
I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies. 
I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word. 
Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word. 
Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O LORD, quicken me according to thy judgment. 
They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law. 
Thou art near, O LORD; and all thy commandments are truth. 
Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever. 
Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law. 
Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word. 
Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes. 
Great are thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to thy judgments. 
Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from thy testimonies. 
I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word. 
Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy lovingkindness. 
Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever. 
Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word. 
I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil. 
I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love. 
Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments. 
Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them. 
LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments. 
My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly. 
I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee. 
Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me understanding according to thy word. 
Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word. 
My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes. 
