And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire. 
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom. 
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. 
And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands: 
They shall perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment; 
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail. 
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool? 
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation? 
Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip. 
For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward; 
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him; 
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will? 
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak. 
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him? 
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and didst set him over the works of thy hands: 
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him. 
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. 
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. 
For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, 
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. 
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold I and the children which God hath given me. 
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; 
And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. 
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took on him the seed of Abraham. 
Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. 
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted. 
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus; 
Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house. 
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house. 
For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God. 
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after; 
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end. 
Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his voice, 
Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness: 
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. 
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do alway err in their heart; and they have not known my ways. 
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.) 
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God. 
But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. 
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end; 
While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation. 
For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. 
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness? 
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not? 
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief. 
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. 
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. 
For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. 
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works. 
And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest. 
