The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed for evermore, knoweth that I lie not. 
In Damascus the governor under Aretas the king kept the city of the damascenes with a garrison, desirous to apprehend me: 
And through a window in a basket was I let down by the wall, and escaped his hands. 
It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. 
I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven. 
And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) 
How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. 
Of such an one will I glory: yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities. 
For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but now I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me. 
And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. 
For this thing I besought the Lord thrice, that it might depart from me. 
And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. 
Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproaches, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ's sake: for when I am weak, then am I strong. 
I am become a fool in glorying; ye have compelled me: for I ought to have been commended of you: for in nothing am I behind the very chiefest apostles, though I be nothing. 
Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds. 
For what is it wherein ye were inferior to other churches, except it be that I myself was not burdensome to you? forgive me this wrong. 
Behold, the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not be burdensome to you: for I seek not your's but you: for the children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the children. 
And I will very gladly spend and be spent for you; though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved. 
But be it so, I did not burden you: nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with guile. 
Did I make a gain of you by any of them whom I sent unto you? 
I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. Did Titus make a gain of you? walked we not in the same spirit? walked we not in the same steps? 
Again, think ye that we excuse ourselves unto you? we speak before God in Christ: but we do all things, dearly beloved, for your edifying. 
For I fear, lest, when I come, I shall not find you such as I would, and that I shall be found unto you such as ye would not: lest there be debates, envyings, wraths, strifes, backbitings, whisperings, swellings, tumults: 
And lest, when I come again, my God will humble me among you, and that I shall bewail many which have sinned already, and have not repented of the uncleanness and fornication and lasciviousness which they have committed. 
This is the third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established. 
I told you before, and foretell you, as if I were present, the second time; and being absent now I write to them which heretofore have sinned, and to all other, that, if I come again, I will not spare: 
Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, which to you-ward is not weak, but is mighty in you. 
For though he was crucified through weakness, yet he liveth by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but we shall live with him by the power of God toward you. 
Examine yourselves, whether ye be in the faith; prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves, how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates? 
But I trust that ye shall know that we are not reprobates. 
Now I pray to God that ye do no evil; not that we should appear approved, but that ye should do that which is honest, though we be as reprobates. 
For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth. 
For we are glad, when we are weak, and ye are strong: and this also we wish, even your perfection. 
Therefore I write these things being absent, lest being present I should use sharpness, according to the power which the Lord hath given me to edification, and not to destruction. 
Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you. 
Greet one another with an holy kiss. 
All the saints salute you. 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen. 
Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;) 
And all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia: 
Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ, 
Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father: 
To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel: 
Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ. 
But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. 
As we said before, so say I now again, if any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed. 
For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ. 
But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. 
For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ. 
