For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the LORD made the heavens. 
Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. 
Give unto the LORD, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the LORD glory and strength. 
Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts. 
O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth. 
Say among the heathen that the LORD reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously. 
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof. 
Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice 
Before the LORD: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth. 
The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof. 
Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne. 
A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about. 
His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled. 
The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 
The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory. 
Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods. 
Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O LORD. 
For thou, LORD, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods. 
Ye that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked. 
Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart. 
Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. 
O sing unto the LORD a new song; for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory. 
The LORD hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen. 
He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 
Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise. 
Sing unto the LORD with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm. 
With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the LORD, the King. 
Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein. 
Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together 
Before the LORD; for he cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity. 
The LORD reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the cherubims; let the earth be moved. 
The LORD is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people. 
Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy. 
The king's strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob. 
Exalt ye the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy. 
Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his name; they called upon the LORD, and he answered them. 
He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them. 
Thou answeredst them, O LORD our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions. 
Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the LORD our God is holy. 
Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all ye lands. 
Serve the LORD with gladness: come before his presence with singing. 
Know ye that the LORD he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. 
Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. 
For the LORD is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations. 
I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O LORD, will I sing. 
I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart. 
I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me. 
A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person. 
Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer. 
Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me. 
