But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot find one wise man among you. 
My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my heart. 
They change the night into day: the light is short because of darkness. 
If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the darkness. 
I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou art my mother, and my sister. 
And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it? 
They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest together is in the dust. 
Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 
How long will it be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak. 
Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your sight? 
He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place? 
Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine. 
The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him. 
The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down. 
For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a snare. 
The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail against him. 
The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in the way. 
Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him to his feet. 
His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be ready at his side. 
It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of death shall devour his strength. 
His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall bring him to the king of terrors. 
It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his: brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation. 
His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off. 
His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the street. 
He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world. 
He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings. 
They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they that went before were affrighted. 
Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the place of him that knoweth not God. 
Then Job answered and said, 
How long will ye vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words? 
These ten times have ye reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to me. 
And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with myself. 
If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach: 
Know now that God hath overthrown me, and hath compassed me with his net. 
Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but there is no judgment. 
He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set darkness in my paths. 
He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head. 
He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope hath he removed like a tree. 
He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me unto him as one of his enemies. 
His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and encamp round about my tabernacle. 
He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me. 
My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me. 
They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an alien in their sight. 
I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him with my mouth. 
My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the children's sake of mine own body. 
Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against me. 
All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are turned against me. 
My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth. 
Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the hand of God hath touched me. 
Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh? 
