All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them. 
And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, 
In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace. 
There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah. 
The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth. 
And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people. 
And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him. 
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel. 
And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days. 
And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 
My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again. 
And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear. 
And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, 
And all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen. 
And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company. 
And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days. 
And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which is beyond Jordan. 
And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre. 
And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father. 
And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him. 
And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, 
So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin; for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. 
And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we be thy servants. 
And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of God? 
But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. 
Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them. 
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years. 
And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph's knees. 
And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. 
And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. 
So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. 
Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob. 
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, 
Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin, 
Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already. 
And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation. 
And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land was filled with them. 
Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. 
And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we: 
Come on, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land. 
Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and Raamses. 
But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. 
And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour: 
And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour. 
And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah: 
And he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them upon the stools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: but if it be a daughter, then she shall live. 
But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive. 
And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto them, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men children alive? 
