For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. 
So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy. 
For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose have I raised thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. 
Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he hardeneth. 
Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who hath resisted his will? 
Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus? 
Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour? 
What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction: 
And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had afore prepared unto glory, 
Even us, whom he hath called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles? 
As he saith also in Osee, I will call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved, which was not beloved. 
And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be called the children of the living God. 
Esaias also crieth concerning Israel, Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved: 
For he will finish the work, and cut it short in righteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth. 
And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed, we had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha. 
What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith. 
But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness. 
Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law. For they stumbled at that stumblingstone; 
As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and rock of offence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. 
Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they might be saved. 
For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. 
For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. 
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth. 
For Moses describeth the righteousness which is of the law, That the man which doeth those things shall live by them. 
But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise, Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down from above:) 
Or, Who shall descend into the deep? (that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.) 
But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach; 
That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. 
For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. 
For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. 
For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: for the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him. 
For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. 
How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher? 
And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things! 
But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Esaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our report? 
So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. 
But I say, Have they not heard? Yes verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world. 
But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you. 
But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was found of them that sought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me. 
But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people. 
I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. 
God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God against Israel saying, 
Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life. 
But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal. 
Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. 
And if by grace, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, then it is no more grace: otherwise work is no more work. 
What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for; but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded. 
(According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear;) unto this day. 
And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, and a stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them: 
Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway. 
