Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief: 
Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time; as it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. 
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day. 
There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. 
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his. 
Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. 
For the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. 
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. 
Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. 
For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. 
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need. 
For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins: 
Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity. 
And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins. 
And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron. 
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee. 
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec. 
Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared; 
Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; 
And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him; 
Called of God an high priest after the order of Melchisedec. 
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. 
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. 
For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe. 
But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. 
Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, 
Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. 
And this will we do, if God permit. 
For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, 
And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come, 
If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame. 
For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God: 
But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burned. 
But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak. 
For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister. 
And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end: 
That ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. 
For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself, 
Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. 
And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. 
For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife. 
Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath: 
That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us: 
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil; 
Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec. 
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; 
To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace; 
Without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually. 
Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. 
And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham: 
