For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. 
So then death worketh in us, but life in you. 
We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I believed, and therefore have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore speak; 
Knowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise up us also by Jesus, and shall present us with you. 
For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God. 
For which cause we faint not; but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. 
For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory; 
While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal. 
For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, an house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. 
For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven: 
If so be that being clothed we shall not be found naked. 
For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened: not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life. 
Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit. 
Therefore we are always confident, knowing that, whilst we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord: 
(For we walk by faith, not by sight:) 
We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be present with the Lord. 
Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him. 
For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. 
Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences. 
For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf, that ye may have somewhat to answer them which glory in appearance, and not in heart. 
For whether we be beside ourselves, it is to God: or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. 
For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead: 
And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them, and rose again. 
Wherefore henceforth know we no man after the flesh: yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more. 
Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature: old things are passed away; behold, all things are become new. 
And all things are of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation; 
To wit, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them; and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. 
Now then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us: we pray you in Christ's stead, be ye reconciled to God. 
For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. 
We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain. 
(For he saith, I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I succoured thee: behold, now is the accepted time; behold, now is the day of salvation.) 
Giving no offence in any thing, that the ministry be not blamed: 
But in all things approving ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, 
In stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labours, in watchings, in fastings; 
By pureness, by knowledge, by long suffering, by kindness, by the Holy Ghost, by love unfeigned, 
By the word of truth, by the power of God, by the armour of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, 
By honour and dishonour, by evil report and good report: as deceivers, and yet true; 
As unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and, behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed; 
As sorrowful, yet alway rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things. 
O ye Corinthians, our mouth is open unto you, our heart is enlarged. 
Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your own bowels. 
Now for a recompence in the same, (I speak as unto my children,) be ye also enlarged. 
Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion hath light with darkness? 
And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? 
And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? for ye are the temple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. 
Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing; and I will receive you. 
And will be a Father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. 
Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. 
Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, we have defrauded no man. 
I speak not this to condemn you: for I have said before, that ye are in our hearts to die and live with you. 
