Tremble, ye women that are at ease; be troubled, ye careless ones: strip you, and make you bare, and gird sackcloth upon your loins. 
They shall lament for the teats, for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine. 
Upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briers; yea, upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city: 
Because the palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city shall be left; the forts and towers shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild asses, a pasture of flocks; 
Until the spirit be poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness be a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be counted for a forest. 
Then judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness remain in the fruitful field. 
And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance for ever. 
And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in sure dwellings, and in quiet resting places; 
When it shall hail, coming down on the forest; and the city shall be low in a low place. 
Blessed are ye that sow beside all waters, that send forth thither the feet of the ox and the ass. 
Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! when thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; and when thou shalt make an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee. 
O LORD, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou their arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble. 
At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered. 
And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of the caterpiller: as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon them. 
The LORD is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with judgment and righteousness. 
And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, and strength of salvation: the fear of the LORD is his treasure. 
Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly. 
The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man. 
The earth mourneth and languisheth: Lebanon is ashamed and hewn down: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their fruits. 
Now will I rise, saith the LORD; now will I be exalted; now will I lift up myself. 
Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath, as fire, shall devour you. 
And the people shall be as the burnings of lime: as thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire. 
Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge my might. 
The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings? 
He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil; 
He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure. 
Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off. 
Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers? 
Thou shalt not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand. 
Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. 
But there the glorious LORD will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby. 
For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is our king; he will save us. 
Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their mast, they could not spread the sail: then is the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey. 
And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity. 
Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye people: let the earth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things that come forth of it. 
For the indignation of the LORD is upon all nations, and his fury upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath delivered them to the slaughter. 
Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stink shall come up out of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted with their blood. 
And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall fall down, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling fig from the fig tree. 
For my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Idumea, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment. 
The sword of the LORD is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, and with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams: for the LORD hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Idumea. 
And the unicorns shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness. 
For it is the day of the LORD's vengeance, and the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion. 
And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch. 
It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever. 
But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness. 
They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none shall be there, and all her princes shall be nothing. 
And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles in the fortresses thereof: and it shall be an habitation of dragons, and a court for owls. 
The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the wild beasts of the island, and the satyr shall cry to his fellow; the screech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place of rest. 
There shall the great owl make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shadow: there shall the vultures also be gathered, every one with her mate. 
Seek ye out of the book of the LORD, and read: no one of these shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded, and his spirit it hath gathered them. 
