He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country: there shalt thou die, and there the chariots of thy glory shall be the shame of thy lord's house. 
And I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall he pull thee down. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah: 
And I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy government into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah. 
And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder; so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open. 
And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be for a glorious throne to his father's house. 
And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house, the offspring and the issue, all vessels of small quantity, from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons. 
In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall; and the burden that was upon it shall be cut off: for the LORD hath spoken it. 
The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land of Chittim it is revealed to them. 
Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle; thou whom the merchants of Zidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished. 
And by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river, is her revenue; and she is a mart of nations. 
Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, even the strength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring forth children, neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins. 
As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained at the report of Tyre. 
Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle. 
Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? her own feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn. 
Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable of the earth? 
The LORD of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the pride of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of the earth. 
Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: there is no more strength. 
He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms: the LORD hath given a commandment against the merchant city, to destroy the strong holds thereof. 
And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed virgin, daughter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there also shalt thou have no rest. 
Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till the Assyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set up the towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof; and he brought it to ruin. 
Howl, ye ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king: after the end of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an harlot. 
Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be remembered. 
And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, that the LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth. 
And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the LORD: it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be for them that dwell before the LORD, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing. 
Behold, the LORD maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof. 
And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of usury to him. 
The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the LORD hath spoken this word. 
The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth and fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish. 
The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant. 
Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left. 
The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearted do sigh. 
The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth. 
They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall be bitter to them that drink it. 
The city of confusion is broken down: every house is shut up, that no man may come in. 
There is a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone. 
In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction. 
When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people, there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is done. 
They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majesty of the LORD, they shall cry aloud from the sea. 
Wherefore glorify ye the LORD in the fires, even the name of the LORD God of Israel in the isles of the sea. 
From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, even glory to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto me! the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, the treacherous dealers have dealt very treacherously. 
Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon thee, O inhabitant of the earth. 
And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake. 
The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved, the earth is moved exceedingly. 
The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall be removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it; and it shall fall, and not rise again. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall punish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth. 
And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many days shall they be visited. 
Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the LORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously. 
O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of old are faithfulness and truth. 
