I will shew thee, hear me; and that which I have seen I will declare; 
Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not hid it: 
Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them. 
The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number of years is hidden to the oppressor. 
A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him. 
He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is waited for of the sword. 
He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand. 
Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle. 
For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth himself against the Almighty. 
He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of his bucklers: 
Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and maketh collops of fat on his flanks. 
And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps. 
He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth. 
He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away. 
Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall be his recompence. 
It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall not be green. 
He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive. 
For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire shall consume the tabernacles of bribery. 
They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly prepareth deceit. 
Then Job answered and said, 
I have heard many such things: miserable comforters are ye all. 
Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest? 
I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my soul's stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head at you. 
But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips should asswage your grief. 
Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear, what am I eased? 
But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company. 
And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against me: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face. 
He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me. 
They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together against me. 
God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into the hands of the wicked. 
I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark. 
His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground. 
He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like a giant. 
I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the dust. 
My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of death; 
Not for any injustice in mine hands: also my prayer is pure. 
O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place. 
Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my record is on high. 
My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God. 
O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for his neighbour! 
When a few years are come, then I shall go the way whence I shall not return. 
My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready for me. 
Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in their provocation? 
Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee; who is he that will strike hands with me? 
For thou hast hid their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them. 
He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his children shall fail. 
He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was as a tabret. 
Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are as a shadow. 
Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall stir up himself against the hypocrite. 
The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger. 
