Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this life? 
If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church. 
I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not a wise man among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren? 
But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers. 
Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? 
Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren. 
Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, 
Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. 
And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God. 
All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. 
Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body. 
And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us by his own power. 
Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid. 
What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? for two, saith he, shall be one flesh. 
But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. 
Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. 
What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? 
For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's. 
Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman. 
Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband. 
Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence: and likewise also the wife unto the husband. 
The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband: and likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the wife. 
Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a time, that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer; and come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency. 
But I speak this by permission, and not of commandment. 
For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that. 
I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I. 
But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to burn. 
And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her husband: 
But and if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband: and let not the husband put away his wife. 
But to the rest speak I, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. 
And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. 
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy. 
But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to peace. 
For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? 
But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all churches. 
Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised. Is any called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised. 
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God. 
Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called. 
Art thou called being a servant? care not for it: but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather. 
For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's freeman: likewise also he that is called, being free, is Christ's servant. 
Ye are bought with a price; be not ye the servants of men. 
Brethren, let every man, wherein he is called, therein abide with God. 
Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord: yet I give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be faithful. 
I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress, I say, that it is good for a man so to be. 
Art thou bound unto a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife. 
But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned. Nevertheless such shall have trouble in the flesh: but I spare you. 
But this I say, brethren, the time is short: it remaineth, that both they that have wives be as though they had none; 
And they that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not; 
And they that use this world, as not abusing it: for the fashion of this world passeth away. 
But I would have you without carefulness. He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord: 
