And by their prayer for you, which long after you for the exceeding grace of God in you. 
Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. 
Now I Paul myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who in presence am base among you, but being absent am bold toward you: 
But I beseech you, that I may not be bold when I am present with that confidence, wherewith I think to be bold against some, which think of us as if we walked according to the flesh. 
For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh: 
(For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) 
Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ; 
And having in a readiness to revenge all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled. 
Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? if any man trust to himself that he is Christ's, let him of himself think this again, that, as he is Christ's, even so are we Christ's. 
For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which the Lord hath given us for edification, and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed: 
That I may not seem as if I would terrify you by letters. 
For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful; but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible. 
Let such an one think this, that, such as we are in word by letters when we are absent, such will we be also in deed when we are present. 
For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise. 
But we will not boast of things without our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God hath distributed to us, a measure to reach even unto you. 
For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we reached not unto you: for we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ: 
Not boasting of things without our measure, that is, of other men's labours; but having hope, when your faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you according to our rule abundantly, 
To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand. 
But he that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord. 
For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth. 
Would to God ye could bear with me a little in my folly: and indeed bear with me. 
For I am jealous over you with godly jealousy: for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ. 
But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. 
For if he that cometh preacheth another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if ye receive another spirit, which ye have not received, or another gospel, which ye have not accepted, ye might well bear with him. 
For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles. 
But though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge; but we have been throughly made manifest among you in all things. 
Have I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might be exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely? 
I robbed other churches, taking wages of them, to do you service. 
And when I was present with you, and wanted, I was chargeable to no man: for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself. 
As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the regions of Achaia. 
Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth. 
But what I do, that I will do, that I may cut off occasion from them which desire occasion; that wherein they glory, they may be found even as we. 
For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. 
And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. 
Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works. 
I say again, let no man think me a fool; if otherwise, yet as a fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little. 
That which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting. 
Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also. 
For ye suffer fools gladly, seeing ye yourselves are wise. 
For ye suffer, if a man bring you into bondage, if a man devour you, if a man take of you, if a man exalt himself, if a man smite you on the face. 
I speak as concerning reproach, as though we had been weak. Howbeit whereinsoever any is bold, (I speak foolishly,) I am bold also. 
Are they Hebrews? so am I. Are they Israelites? so am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? so am I. 
Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labours more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft. 
Of the Jews five times received I forty stripes save one. 
Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I have been in the deep; 
In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren; 
In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. 
Beside those things that are without, that which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the churches. 
Who is weak, and I am not weak? who is offended, and I burn not? 
If I must needs glory, I will glory of the things which concern mine infirmities. 
