Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. 
Wherefore comfort one another with these words. 
But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you. 
For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. 
For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape. 
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. 
Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness. 
Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be sober. 
For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken are drunken in the night. 
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of salvation. 
For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ, 
Who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. 
Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as also ye do. 
And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labour among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you; 
And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace among yourselves. 
Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. 
See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men. 
Rejoice evermore. 
Pray without ceasing. 
In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. 
Quench not the Spirit. 
Despise not prophesyings. 
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good. 
Abstain from all appearance of evil. 
And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. 
Brethren, pray for us. 
Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss. 
I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. 
Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ: 
Grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth; 
So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure: 
Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer: 
Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you; 
And to you who are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, 
In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ: 
Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power; 
When he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe (because our testimony among you was believed) in that day. 
Wherefore also we pray always for you, that our God would count you worthy of this calling, and fulfil all the good pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith with power: 
That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him, 
That ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand. 
Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition; 
Who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that he is God. 
Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these things? 
And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time. 
For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way. 
And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming: 
