Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for the governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar. 
And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites, wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites: one principal household being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar. 
Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah, 
The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 
The fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 
The seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah, 
The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah, 
The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 
The thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 
The fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 
The seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses, 
The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel, 
The one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and twentieth to Gamul, 
The three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four and twentieth to Maaziah. 
These were the orderings of them in their service to come into the house of the LORD, according to their manner, under Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him. 
And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of Amram; Shubael: of the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah. 
Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was Isshiah. 
Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath. 
And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth. 
Of the sons of Uzziel; Michah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir. 
The brother of Michah was Isshiah: of the sons of Isshiah; Zechariah. 
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi: the sons of Jaaziah; Beno. 
The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri. 
Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons. 
Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel. 
The sons also of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers. 
These likewise cast lots over against their brethren the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the principal fathers over against their younger brethren. 
Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to the service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the number of the workmen according to their service was: 
Of the sons of Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of Asaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to the order of the king. 
Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to praise the LORD. 
Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth: 
All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 
All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman. 
So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed in the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundred fourscore and eight. 
And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar. 
Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve: 
The third to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The fourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The eleventh to Azareel, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The twelfth to Hashabiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The thirteenth to Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 
