But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. 
If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloak for their sin. 
He that hateth me hateth my Father also. 
If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father. 
But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause. 
But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me: 
And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning. 
These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended. 
They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service. 
And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father, nor me. 
But these things have I told you, that when the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you. 
But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? 
But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. 
Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you. 
And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: 
Of sin, because they believe not on me; 
Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more; 
Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged. 
I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. 
Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come. 
He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 
All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 
A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father. 
Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father? 
They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? we cannot tell what he saith. 
Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me? 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. 
A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. 
And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. 
And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. 
Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. 
These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father. 
At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you: 
For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God. 
I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father. 
His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb. 
Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God. 
Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? 
Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. 
These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world. 
These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee: 
As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. 
And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. 
I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. 
And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. 
I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have kept thy word. 
Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. 
For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. 
I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. 
And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them. 
