And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her. 
And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us. 
And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. 
Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him. 
And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great: 
For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him. 
For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth. 
And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we. 
And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. 
And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them. 
And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water. 
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him. 
And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah. 
And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. 
And he went up from thence to Beersheba. 
And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake. 
And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well. 
Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army. 
And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you? 
And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee; 
That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD. 
And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink. 
And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace. 
And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water. 
And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day. 
And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite: 
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah. 
And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I. 
And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death: 
Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; 
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die. 
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it. 
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 
Bring me venison, and make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD before my death. 
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee. 
Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth: 
And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, and that he may bless thee before his death. 
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 
My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing. 
And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only obey my voice, and go fetch me them. 
And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved. 
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son: 
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck: 
And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob. 
And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I; who art thou, my son? 
And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me. 
And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it to me. 
And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not. 
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau. 
And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him. 
