The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. 
He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 
Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? 
And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place. 
Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee. 
The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole. 
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day. 
But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. 
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God. 
Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. 
For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. 
For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will. 
For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son: 
That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him. 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life. 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live. 
For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself; 
And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man. 
Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, 
And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation. 
I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me. 
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. 
There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true. 
Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth. 
But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that ye might be saved. 
He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. 
But I have greater witness than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me. 
And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. 
And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not. 
Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me. 
And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life. 
I receive not honour from men. 
But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. 
I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. 
How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh from God only? 
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. 
For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me; for he wrote of me. 
But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words? 
After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias. 
And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. 
And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 
And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. 
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? 
And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do. 
Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. 
One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, 
There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many? 
And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. 
And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. 
When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. 
