Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there shall not be a man left: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them! 
Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus, is planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the murderer. 
Give them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts. 
All their wickedness is in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I will love them no more: all their princes are revolters. 
Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay even the beloved fruit of their womb. 
My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations. 
Israel is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself: according to the multitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars; according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly images. 
Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall break down their altars, he shall spoil their images. 
For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not the LORD; what then should a king do to us? 
They have spoken words, swearing falsely in making a covenant: thus judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field. 
The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of Bethaven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof that rejoiced on it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it. 
It shall be also carried unto Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. 
As for Samaria, her king is cut off as the foam upon the water. 
The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us. 
O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not overtake them. 
It is in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people shall be gathered against them, when they shall bind themselves in their two furrows. 
And Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught, and loveth to tread out the corn; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, and Jacob shall break his clods. 
Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up your fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain righteousness upon you. 
Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men. 
Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Betharbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon her children. 
So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in a morning shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off. 
When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt. 
As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto Baalim, and burned incense to graven images. 
I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but they knew not that I healed them. 
I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love: and I was to them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat unto them. 
He shall not return into the land of Egypt, and the Assyrian shall be his king, because they refused to return. 
And the sword shall abide on his cities, and shall consume his branches, and devour them, because of their own counsels. 
And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they called them to the most High, none at all would exalt him. 
How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled together. 
I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city. 
They shall walk after the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when he shall roar, then the children shall tremble from the west. 
They shall tremble as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the LORD. 
Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the saints. 
Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he daily increaseth lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with the Assyrians, and oil is carried into Egypt. 
The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he recompense him. 
He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strength he had power with God: 
Yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him in Bethel, and there he spake with us; 
Even the LORD God of hosts; the LORD is his memorial. 
Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment and wait on thy God continually. 
He is a merchant, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he loveth to oppress. 
And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out substance: in all my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that were sin. 
And I that am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet make thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the solemn feast. 
I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets. 
Is there iniquity in Gilead? surely they are vanity: they sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their altars are as heaps in the furrows of the fields. 
And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he kept sheep. 
And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved. 
Ephraim provoked him to anger most bitterly: therefore shall he leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his LORD return unto him. 
When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but when he offended in Baal, he died. 
And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, and idols according to their own understanding, all of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves. 
Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud and as the early dew that passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney. 
