Likewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said, 
He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be the King of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him. 
He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will have him: for he said, I am the Son of God. 
The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth. 
Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour. 
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 
Some of them that stood there, when they heard that, said, This man calleth for Elias. 
And straightway one of them ran, and took a spunge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. 
The rest said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to save him. 
Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost. 
And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake, and the rocks rent; 
And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, 
And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many. 
Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. 
And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: 
Among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedees children. 
When the even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple: 
He went to Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered. 
And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, 
And laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and departed. 
And there was Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre. 
Now the next day, that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate, 
Saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again. 
Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first. 
Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as sure as ye can. 
So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch. 
In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. 
And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. 
His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow: 
And for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men. 
And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. 
He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. 
And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. 
And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word. 
And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him. 
Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. 
Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. 
And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, 
Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept. 
And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you. 
So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. 
Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 
And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted. 
And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. 
Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: 
Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen. 
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God; 
As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. 
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. 
John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. 
