Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer. 
From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I. 
For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy. 
I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Selah. 
For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name. 
Thou wilt prolong the king's life: and his years as many generations. 
He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him. 
So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily perform my vows. 
Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation. 
He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved. 
How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence. 
They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah. 
My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him. 
He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved. 
In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God. 
Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us. Selah. 
Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity. 
Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them. 
God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God. 
Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work. 
O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is; 
To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary. 
Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee. 
Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name. 
My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips: 
When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches. 
Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. 
My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me. 
But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth. 
They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes. 
But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped. 
Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy. 
Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity: 
Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words: 
That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not. 
They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them? 
They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep. 
But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded. 
So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away. 
And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing. 
The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory. 
Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed. 
O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. 
Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away. 
Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple. 
By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea: 
Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power: 
Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people. 
They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice. 
Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it. 
