And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. 
And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation: 
Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. 
And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see it. 
And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not after them, nor follow them. 
For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; so shall also the Son of man be in his day. 
But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation. 
And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man. 
They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all. 
Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; 
But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all. 
Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed. 
In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back. 
Remember Lot's wife. 
Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. 
I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left. 
Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken, and the other left. 
Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left. 
And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together. 
And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint; 
Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: 
And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. 
And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; 
Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. 
And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. 
And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? 
I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? 
And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: 
Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. 
The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. 
I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. 
And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. 
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. 
And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them. 
But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. 
And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? 
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God. 
Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother. 
And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up. 
Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me. 
And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very rich. 
And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! 
For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved? 
And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God. 
Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee. 
And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake, 
Who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting. 
Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished. 
