If a man beget an hundred children, and live many years, so that the days of his years be many, and his soul be not filled with good, and also that he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he. 
For he cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness. 
Moreover he hath not seen the sun, nor known any thing: this hath more rest than the other. 
Yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen no good: do not all go to one place? 
All the labour of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. 
For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor, that knoweth to walk before the living? 
Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity and vexation of spirit. 
That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it is man: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he. 
Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the better? 
For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun? 
A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth. 
It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart. 
Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better. 
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. 
It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools. 
For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity. 
Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the heart. 
Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. 
Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools. 
Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not enquire wisely concerning this. 
Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to them that see the sun. 
For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it. 
Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked? 
In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him. 
All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness. 
Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself ? 
Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time? 
It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from this withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all. 
Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city. 
For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not. 
Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hear thy servant curse thee: 
For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others. 
All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me. 
That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out? 
I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness: 
And I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her. 
Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account: 
Which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found. 
Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions. 
Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? a man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed. 
I counsel thee to keep the king's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God. 
Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing; for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him. 
Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say unto him, What doest thou? 
Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no evil thing: and a wise man's heart discerneth both time and judgment. 
Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore the misery of man is great upon him. 
For he knoweth not that which shall be: for who can tell him when it shall be? 
There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither hath he power in the day of death: and there is no discharge in that war; neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it. 
All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun: there is a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt. 
And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done: this is also vanity. 
Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil. 
