Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world. 
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. 
We love him, because he first loved us. 
If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? 
And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also. 
Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: and every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him. 
By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments. 
For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous. 
For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. 
Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God? 
This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth. 
For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one. 
And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood: and these three agree in one. 
If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son. 
He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son. 
And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. 
He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. 
These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. 
And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us: 
And if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him. 
If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death: I do not say that he shall pray for it. 
All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto death. 
We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. 
And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. 
And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life. 
Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. 
The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth; 
For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever. 
Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. 
I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. 
And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. 
And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. 
For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. 
Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. 
Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. 
If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed: 
For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds. 
Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full. 
The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen. 
The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. 
Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. 
For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. 
I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. 
Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers; 
Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well: 
Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles. 
We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth. 
I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. 
Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church. 
Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. 
