And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone. 
But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary. 
And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. 
And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear. 
But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid. 
And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. 
And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus. 
But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. 
And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? 
And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased. 
Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the Son of God. 
And when they were gone over, they came into the land of Gennesaret. 
And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that were diseased; 
And besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made perfectly whole. 
Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying, 
Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread. 
But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? 
For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death. 
But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; 
And honour not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. 
Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, 
This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me. 
But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. 
And he called the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand: 
Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man. 
Then came his disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this saying? 
But he answered and said, Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up. 
Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch. 
Then answered Peter and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable. 
And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding? 
Do not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught? 
But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and they defile the man. 
For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies: 
These are the things which defile a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a man. 
Then Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. 
And, behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil. 
But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us. 
But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. 
Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. 
But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it to dogs. 
And she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table. 
Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. 
And Jesus departed from thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and went up into a mountain, and sat down there. 
And great multitudes came unto him, having with them those that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus' feet; and he healed them: 
Insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see: and they glorified the God of Israel. 
Then Jesus called his disciples unto him, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: and I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way. 
And his disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so much bread in the wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude? 
And Jesus saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few little fishes. 
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground. 
And he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake them, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. 
