And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons: 
And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: 
And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. 
Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life; 
It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave. 
For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever. 
Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren. 
For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father. 
Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren. 
And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard. 
And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence. 
And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. 
Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life. 
For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest. 
And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance. 
So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. 
Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me, tarry not: 
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast: 
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty. 
And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you. 
And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither. 
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck. 
Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him. 
And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants. 
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye; lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 
And take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land. 
Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come. 
Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of Egypt is your's. 
And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way. 
To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment. 
And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way. 
So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way. 
And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father, 
And told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. 
And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived: 
And Israel said, It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before I die. 
And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. 
And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I. 
And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 
I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. 
And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 
And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him: 
His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt. 
And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn. 
And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. 
And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman. 
And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul. 
And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron. 
And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel. 
