Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world; 
Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; 
Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. 
These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. 
Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, 
To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men. 
For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. 
But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, 
Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost; 
Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour; 
That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. 
This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. 
But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain. 
A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject; 
Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself. 
When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter. 
Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them. 
And let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. 
All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen. 
Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer, 
And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house: 
Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers, 
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints; 
That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. 
For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. 
Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient, 
Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. 
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds: 
Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me: 
Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels: 
Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel: 
But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly. 
For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever; 
Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord? 
If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself. 
If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account; 
I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides. 
Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord. 
Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say. 
But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you. 
There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus; 
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, 
Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds; 
Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high: 
Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they. 
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son? 
And again, when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. 
