He hath made every thing beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. 
I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice, and to do good in his life. 
And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the good of all his labour, it is the gift of God. 
I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doeth it, that men should fear before him. 
That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been; and God requireth that which is past. 
And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, that wickedness was there; and the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there. 
I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. 
I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that they might see that they themselves are beasts. 
For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast: for all is vanity. 
All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again. 
Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth? 
Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him? 
So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter. 
Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive. 
Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun. 
Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. 
The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh. 
Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit. 
Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun. 
There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hath neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, it is a sore travail. 
Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour. 
For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up. 
Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone? 
And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken. 
Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished. 
For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor. 
I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead. 
There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit. 
Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider not that they do evil. 
Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few. 
For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool's voice is known by multitude of words. 
When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed. 
Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay. 
Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands? 
For in the multitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: but fear thou God. 
If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for he that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than they. 
Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is served by the field. 
He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity. 
When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with their eyes? 
The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep. 
There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt. 
But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son, and there is nothing in his hand. 
As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may carry away in his hand. 
And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind? 
All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow and wrath with his sickness. 
Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that he taketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him: for it is his portion. 
Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God. 
For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth him in the joy of his heart. 
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common among men: 
A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honour, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease. 
