And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber. 
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; because in his days the earth was divided: and his brother's name was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
Hadoram also, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. 
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah, 
Eber, Peleg, Reu, 
Serug, Nahor, Terah, 
Abram; the same is Abraham. 
The sons of Abraham; Isaac, and Ishmael. 
These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 
Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema, 
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael. 
Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan. 
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah. 
And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac; Esau and Israel. 
The sons of Esau; Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. 
The sons of Eliphaz; Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. 
The sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. 
And the sons of Seir; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan. 
And the sons of Lotan; Hori, and Homam: and Timna was Lotan's sister. 
The sons of Shobal; Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. and the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah. 
The sons of Anah; Dishon. And the sons of Dishon; Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan; Uz, and Aran. 
Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel; Bela the son of Beor: and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And when Bela was dead, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. 
And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith. 
And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And when Shaul was dead, Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
And when Baalhanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, duke Aliah, duke Jetheth, 
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram. These are the dukes of Edom. 
These are the sons of Israel; Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun, 
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. 
The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah: which three were born unto him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew him. 
And Tamar his daughter in law bore him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five. 
The sons of Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul. 
And the sons of Zerah; Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara: five of them in all. 
And the sons of Carmi; Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the thing accursed. 
And the sons of Ethan; Azariah. 
The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him; Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai. 
And Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah; 
And Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz, 
And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse, 
And Jesse begat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third, 
