And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp. 
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them. 
And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God that all the LORD'S people were prophets, and that the LORD would put his spirit upon them! 
And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel. 
And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day's journey on this side, and as it were a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon the face of the earth. 
And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, and all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp. 
And while the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against the people, and the LORD smote the people with a very great plague. 
And he called the name of that place Kibrothhattaavah: because there they buried the people that lusted. 
And the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazeroth; and abode at Hazeroth. 
And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian woman. 
And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he not spoken also by us? And the LORD heard it. 
(Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men which were upon the face of the earth.) 
And the LORD spake suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out. 
And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both came forth. 
And he said, Hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you, I the LORD will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream. 
My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house. 
With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the LORD shall he behold: wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses? 
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he departed. 
And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam, and, behold, she was leprous. 
And Aaron said unto Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, lay not the sin upon us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we have sinned. 
Let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he cometh out of his mother's womb. 
And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech thee. 
And the LORD said unto Moses, If her father had but spit in her face, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut out from the camp seven days, and after that let her be received in again. 
And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people journeyed not till Miriam was brought in again. 
And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched in the wilderness of Paran. 
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 
Send thou men, that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every one a ruler among them. 
And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from the wilderness of Paran: all those men were heads of the children of Israel. 
And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur. 
Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori. 
Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. 
Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph. 
Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun. 
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu. 
Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi. 
Of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi. 
Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli. 
Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael. 
Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi. 
Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi. 
These are the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua. 
And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them, Get you up this way southward, and go up into the mountain: 
And see the land, what it is, and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many; 
And what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad; and what cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong holds; 
And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether there be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the firstripe grapes. 
So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath. 
And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.) 
And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and they brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs. 
The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence. 
And they returned from searching of the land after forty days. 
