And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad. 
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha. 
These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations. 
Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born. 
The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. 
And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. 
And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber. 
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan. 
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, 
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 
And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, 
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan. 
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east. 
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations. 
These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood. 
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech. 
And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there. 
And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter. 
And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. 
And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. 
And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. 
Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. 
So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city. 
Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth. 
These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 
And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 
And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 
And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 
And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 
And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 
And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters. 
And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot. 
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees. 
And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah. 
But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there. 
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran. 
Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee: 
And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: 
