Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; 
Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow. 
Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. 
If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: 
But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it. 
How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full of judgment; righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers. 
Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water: 
Thy princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves: every one loveth gifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless, neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them. 
Therefore saith the LORD, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies: 
And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin: 
And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city. 
Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness. 
And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that forsake the LORD shall be consumed. 
For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen. 
For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that hath no water. 
And the strong shall be as tow, and the maker of it as a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them. 
The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem. 
And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the LORD's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. 
And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem. 
And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more. 
O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the LORD. 
Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and are soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please themselves in the children of strangers. 
Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither is there any end of their chariots: 
Their land also is full of idols; they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made: 
And the mean man boweth down, and the great man humbleth himself: therefore forgive them not. 
Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty. 
The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the LORD alone shall be exalted in that day. 
For the day of the LORD of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud and lofty, and upon every one that is lifted up; and he shall be brought low: 
And upon all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan, 
And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills that are lifted up, 
And upon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall, 
And upon all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures. 
And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low: and the LORD alone shall be exalted in that day. 
And the idols he shall utterly abolish. 
And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth. 
In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which they made each one for himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats; 
To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the ragged rocks, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth. 
Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be accounted of ? 
For, behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water. 
The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient, 
The captain of fifty, and the honourable man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator. 
And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them. 
And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbour: the child shall behave himself proudly against the ancient, and the base against the honourable. 
When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his father, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand: 
In that day shall he swear, saying, I will not be an healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing: make me not a ruler of the people. 
For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen: because their tongue and their doings are against the LORD, to provoke the eyes of his glory. 
The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have rewarded evil unto themselves. 
Say ye to the righteous, that it shall be well with him: for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. 
Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him: for the reward of his hands shall be given him. 
As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths. 
