Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily. 
Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually. 
Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare. 
When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly. 
The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah. 
I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn: 
Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck. 
For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south. 
But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another. 
For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them. 
But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob. 
All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted. 
In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel. 
In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion. 
There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah. 
Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey. 
The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands. 
At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep. 
Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry? 
Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still, 
When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah. 
Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. 
Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared. 
He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth. 
I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me. 
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted. 
I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah. 
Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 
I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times. 
I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search. 
Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more? 
Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for evermore? 
Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah. 
And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High. 
I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember thy wonders of old. 
I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings. 
Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God? 
Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people. 
Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. 
The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled. 
The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad. 
The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook. 
Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known. 
Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth. 
I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old: 
Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. 
We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done. 
For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children: 
That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children: 
