If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong: and if of judgment, who shall set me a time to plead? 
If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse. 
Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life. 
This is one thing, therefore I said it, He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked. 
If the scourge slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the innocent. 
The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, and who is he? 
Now my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good. 
They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that hasteth to the prey. 
If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself: 
I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent. 
If I be wicked, why then labour I in vain? 
If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so clean; 
Yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me. 
For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment. 
Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, that might lay his hand upon us both. 
Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me: 
Then would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with me. 
My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. 
I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou contendest with me. 
Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked? 
Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth? 
Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man's days, 
That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin? 
Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand. 
Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about; yet thou dost destroy me. 
Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and wilt thou bring me into dust again? 
Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese? 
Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews. 
Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit. 
And these things hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this is with thee. 
If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity. 
If I be wicked, woe unto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction; 
For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion: and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me. 
Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine indignation upon me; changes and war are against me. 
Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me! 
I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave. 
Are not my days few? cease then, and let me alone, that I may take comfort a little, 
Before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death; 
A land of darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as darkness. 
Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, 
Should not the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be justified? 
Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? 
For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes. 
But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee; 
And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth. 
Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? 
It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know? 
The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. 
If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can hinder him? 
For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider it? 
