They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image. 
Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass. 
They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt; 
Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea. 
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them. 
Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word: 
But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD. 
Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness: 
To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands. 
They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. 
Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them. 
Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the plague was stayed. 
And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore. 
They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes: 
Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips. 
They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them: 
But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works. 
And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them. 
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils, 
And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood. 
Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions. 
Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance. 
And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them. 
Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand. 
Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity. 
Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry: 
And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. 
He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives. 
Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise. 
Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the LORD. 
O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy; 
And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south. 
They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in. 
Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. 
Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses. 
And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation. 
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! 
For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness. 
Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron; 
Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High: 
Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and there was none to help. 
Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses. 
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder. 
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! 
For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder. 
Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted. 
Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death. 
Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses. 
He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions. 
