Thy teeth are as a flock of sheep which go up from the washing, whereof every one beareth twins, and there is not one barren among them. 
As a piece of a pomegranate are thy temples within thy locks. 
There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, and virgins without number. 
My dove, my undefiled is but one; she is the only one of her mother, she is the choice one of her that bare her. The daughters saw her, and blessed her; yea, the queens and the concubines, and they praised her. 
Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners? 
I went down into the garden of nuts to see the fruits of the valley, and to see whether the vine flourished and the pomegranates budded. 
Or ever I was aware, my soul made me like the chariots of Amminadib. 
Return, return, O Shulamite; return, return, that we may look upon thee. What will ye see in the Shulamite? As it were the company of two armies. 
How beautiful are thy feet with shoes, O prince's daughter! the joints of thy thighs are like jewels, the work of the hands of a cunning workman. 
Thy navel is like a round goblet, which wanteth not liquor: thy belly is like an heap of wheat set about with lilies. 
Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins. 
Thy neck is as a tower of ivory; thine eyes like the fishpools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bathrabbim: thy nose is as the tower of Lebanon which looketh toward Damascus. 
Thine head upon thee is like Carmel, and the hair of thine head like purple; the king is held in the galleries. 
How fair and how pleasant art thou, O love, for delights! 
This thy stature is like to a palm tree, and thy breasts to clusters of grapes. 
I said, I will go up to the palm tree, I will take hold of the boughs thereof: now also thy breasts shall be as clusters of the vine, and the smell of thy nose like apples; 
And the roof of thy mouth like the best wine for my beloved, that goeth down sweetly, causing the lips of those that are asleep to speak. 
I am my beloved's, and his desire is toward me. 
Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the field; let us lodge in the villages. 
Let us get up early to the vineyards; let us see if the vine flourish, whether the tender grape appear, and the pomegranates bud forth: there will I give thee my loves. 
The mandrakes give a smell, and at our gates are all manner of pleasant fruits, new and old, which I have laid up for thee, O my beloved. 
O that thou wert as my brother, that sucked the breasts of my mother! when I should find thee without, I would kiss thee; yea, I should not be despised. 
I would lead thee, and bring thee into my mother's house, who would instruct me: I would cause thee to drink of spiced wine of the juice of my pomegranate. 
His left hand should be under my head, and his right hand should embrace me. 
I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love, until he please. 
Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her beloved? I raised thee up under the apple tree: there thy mother brought thee forth: there she brought thee forth that bare thee. 
Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm: for love is strong as death; jealousy is cruel as the grave: the coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehement flame. 
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it: if a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would utterly be contemned. 
We have a little sister, and she hath no breasts: what shall we do for our sister in the day when she shall be spoken for? 
If she be a wall, we will build upon her a palace of silver: and if she be a door, we will inclose her with boards of cedar. 
I am a wall, and my breasts like towers: then was I in his eyes as one that found favour. 
Solomon had a vineyard at Baalhamon; he let out the vineyard unto keepers; every one for the fruit thereof was to bring a thousand pieces of silver. 
My vineyard, which is mine, is before me: thou, O Solomon, must have a thousand, and those that keep the fruit thereof two hundred. 
Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companions hearken to thy voice: cause me to hear it. 
Make haste, my beloved, and be thou like to a roe or to a young hart upon the mountains of spices. 
The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. 
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the LORD hath spoken, I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. 
The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: but Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider. 
Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the LORD, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away backward. 
Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. 
From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment. 
Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire: your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers. 
And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city. 
Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah. 
Hear the word of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah. 
To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats. 
When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts? 
Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting. 
Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth: they are a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear them. 
And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood. 
