And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; and they returned home again. 
And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day. 
And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him. 
And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy. 
And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus. 
And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles. 
And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem. 
Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus. 
And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done. 
And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to Jerusalem. 
There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea, and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge. 
And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly. 
And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all the elders were present. 
And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly what things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry. 
And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which believe; and they are all zealous of the law: 
And they are informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after the customs. 
What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come. 
Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which have a vow on them; 
Them take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee, are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest the law. 
As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written and concluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from strangled, and from fornication. 
Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of the days of purification, until that an offering should be offered for every one of them. 
And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which were of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people, and laid hands on him, 
Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is the man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the law, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place. 
(For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.) 
And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: and they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith the doors were shut. 
And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar. 
Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unto them: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left beating of Paul. 
Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he had done. 
And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him to be carried into the castle. 
And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne of the soldiers for the violence of the people. 
For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away with him. 
And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak Greek? 
Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers? 
But Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people. 
And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and beckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying, 
Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto you. 
(And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them, they kept the more silence: and he saith,) 
I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day. 
And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women. 
As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem, for to be punished. 
And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me. 
And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? 
And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. 
And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me. 
And I said, What shall I do, LORD? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do. 
And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus. 
And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which dwelt there, 
Came unto me, and stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same hour I looked up upon him. 
And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth. 
For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard. 
