And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD. 
And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The LORD God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in goodness and truth, 
Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth generation. 
And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped. 
And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O LORD, let my LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance. 
And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the work of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee. 
Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I drive out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite. 
Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare in the midst of thee: 
But ye shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves: 
For thou shalt worship no other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God: 
Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods, and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice; 
And thou take of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoring after their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods. 
Thou shalt make thee no molten gods. 
The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the month Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt. 
All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firstling among thy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male. 
But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. All the firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before me empty. 
Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest. 
And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end. 
Thrice in the year shall all your menchildren appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel. 
For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year. 
Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left unto the morning. 
The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk. 
And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel. 
And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments. 
And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with the two tables of testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the mount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him. 
And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him. 
And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them. 
And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mount Sinai. 
And till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his face. 
But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake unto the children of Israel that which he was commanded. 
And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again, until he went in to speak with him. 
And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together, and said unto them, These are the words which the LORD hath commanded, that ye should do them. 
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death. 
Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath day. 
And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying, 
Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and silver, and brass, 
And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair, 
And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood, 
And oil for the light, and spices for anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, 
And onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate. 
And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that the LORD hath commanded; 
The tabernacle, his tent, and his covering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and his sockets, 
The ark, and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat, and the vail of the covering, 
The table, and his staves, and all his vessels, and the shewbread, 
The candlestick also for the light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light, 
And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in of the tabernacle, 
The altar of burnt offering, with his brasen grate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot, 
The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court, 
The pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court, and their cords, 
The cloths of service, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office. 
