All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him? 
False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that I knew not. 
They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul. 
But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom. 
I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother. 
But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not: 
With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth. 
Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions. 
I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people. 
Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. 
For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land. 
Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it. 
This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me. 
Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord. 
Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me. 
Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up. 
Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify themselves against me. 
Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant. 
And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise all the day long. 
The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there is no fear of God before his eyes. 
For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be found to be hateful. 
The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off to be wise, and to do good. 
He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way that is not good; he abhorreth not evil. 
Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. 
Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast. 
How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. 
They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. 
For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light. 
O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy righteousness to the upright in heart. 
Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me. 
There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise. 
Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. 
For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. 
Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. 
Delight thyself also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. 
Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass. 
And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. 
Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. 
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. 
For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the LORD, they shall inherit the earth. 
For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be. 
But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. 
The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. 
The LORD shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming. 
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright conversation. 
Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. 
A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked. 
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD upholdeth the righteous. 
The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever. 
They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. 
