They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. 
He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. 
Except the LORD build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the LORD keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. 
It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep. 
Lo, children are an heritage of the LORD: and the fruit of the womb is his reward. 
As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth. 
Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate. 
Blessed is every one that feareth the LORD; that walketh in his ways. 
For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. 
Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house: thy children like olive plants round about thy table. 
Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the LORD. 
The LORD shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life. 
Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel. 
Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say: 
Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me. 
The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows. 
The LORD is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked. 
Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion. 
Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up: 
Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom. 
Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the LORD be upon you: we bless you in the name of the LORD. 
Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O LORD. 
Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications. 
If thou, LORD, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand? 
But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared. 
I wait for the LORD, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope. 
My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning. 
Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption. 
And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities. 
Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me. 
Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child. 
Let Israel hope in the LORD from henceforth and for ever. 
Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions: 
How he sware unto the LORD, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob; 
Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed; 
I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids, 
Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob. 
Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood. 
We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool. 
Arise, O LORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength. 
Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy. 
For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of thine anointed. 
The LORD hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne. 
If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore. 
For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation. 
This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it. 
I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread. 
I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. 
There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. 
His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish. 
