And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with the elders, and with a certain orator named Tertullus, who informed the governor against Paul. 
And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence, 
We accept it always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness. 
Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words. 
For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes: 
Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law. 
But the chief captain Lysias came upon us, and with great violence took him away out of our hands, 
Commanding his accusers to come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge of all these things, whereof we accuse him. 
And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so. 
Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself: 
Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship. 
And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city: 
Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. 
But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets: 
And have hope toward God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust. 
And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void to offence toward God, and toward men. 
Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings. 
Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult. 
Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they had ought against me. 
Or else let these same here say, if they have found any evil doing in me, while I stood before the council, 
Except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day. 
And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge of that way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter. 
And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let him have liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister or come unto him. 
And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. 
And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee. 
He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him. 
But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: and Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound. 
Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem. 
Then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed him against Paul, and besought him, 
And desired favour against him, that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way to kill him. 
But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself would depart shortly thither. 
Let them therefore, said he, which among you are able, go down with me, and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him. 
And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he went down unto Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seat commanded Paul to be brought. 
And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalem stood round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul, which they could not prove. 
While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I offended any thing at all. 
But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul, and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me? 
Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as thou very well knowest. 
For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appeal unto Caesar. 
Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go. 
And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Caesarea to salute Festus. 
And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul's cause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds by Felix: 
About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgment against him. 
To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to deliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have the accusers face to face, and have licence to answer for himself concerning the crime laid against him. 
Therefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought forth. 
Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed: 
But had certain questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus, which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. 
And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked him whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these matters. 
But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Caesar. 
Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself. To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him. 
And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with great pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the chief captains, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul was brought forth. 
