But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. 
Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh. 
For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. 
And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. 
Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents. 
And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two. 
But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. 
After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. 
And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. 
His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. 
His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 
Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: 
And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine. 
His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: 
Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. 
Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. 
For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. 
And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 
When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: 
And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: 
And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. 
Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 
For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: 
Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. 
Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink? 
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? 
Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? 
And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. 
Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: 
For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: 
I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. 
Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? 
Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. 
And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal. 
And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples, 
Ye know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified. 
Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, unto the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas, 
And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill him. 
But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people. 
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, 
There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at meat. 
But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? 
For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. 
When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me. 
For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. 
For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. 
Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her. 
Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests, 
And said unto them, What will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver. 
