Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish. 
I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it. 
Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand. 
When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is vanity. Selah. 
Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were. 
O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more. 
I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. 
He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. 
And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD. 
Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. 
Many, O LORD my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. 
Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. 
Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me, 
I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my heart. 
I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest. 
I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation. 
Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me. 
For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me. 
Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me. 
Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. 
Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha. 
Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified. 
But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God. 
Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver him in time of trouble. 
The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. 
The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. 
I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee. 
Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name perish? 
And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it. 
All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they devise my hurt. 
An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that he lieth he shall rise up no more. 
Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. 
But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them. 
By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. 
And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face for ever. 
Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen. 
As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. 
My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God? 
My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? 
When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday. 
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance. 
O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar. 
Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. 
Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life. 
I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? 
As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God? 
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God. 
Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man. 
For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? 
O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles. 
