But he whose descent is not counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises. 
And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the better. 
And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth. 
And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham. 
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him. 
If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron? 
For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law. 
For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar. 
For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood. 
And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest, 
Who is made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. 
For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec. 
For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof. 
For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God. 
And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest: 
(For those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him that said unto him, The Lord sware and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:) 
By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. 
And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death: 
But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. 
Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. 
For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens; 
Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself. 
For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore. 
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such an high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens; 
A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man. 
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer. 
For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law: 
Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed to thee in the mount. 
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. 
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second. 
For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah: 
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. 
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people: 
And they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest. 
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. 
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old. Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away. 
Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary. 
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the sanctuary. 
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all; 
Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant; 
And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly. 
Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God. 
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people: 
The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing: 
Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience; 
Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation. 
But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building; 
Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. 
For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh: 
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? 
