And the men arose, and went away: and Joshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me, that I may here cast lots for you before the LORD in Shiloh. 
And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven parts in a book, and came again to Joshua to the host at Shiloh. 
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD: and there Joshua divided the land unto the children of Israel according to their divisions. 
And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families: and the coast of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. 
And their border on the north side was from Jordan; and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north side, and went up through the mountains westward; and the goings out thereof were at the wilderness of Bethaven. 
And the border went over from thence toward Luz, to the side of Luz, which is Bethel, southward; and the border descended to Atarothadar, near the hill that lieth on the south side of the nether Bethhoron. 
And the border was drawn thence, and compassed the corner of the sea southward, from the hill that lieth before Bethhoron southward; and the goings out thereof were at Kirjathbaal, which is Kirjathjearim, a city of the children of Judah: this was the west quarter. 
And the south quarter was from the end of Kirjathjearim, and the border went out on the west, and went out to the well of waters of Nephtoah: 
And the border came down to the end of the mountain that lieth before the valley of the son of Hinnom, and which is in the valley of the giants on the north, and descended to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to Enrogel, 
And was drawn from the north, and went forth to Enshemesh, and went forth toward Geliloth, which is over against the going up of Adummim, and descended to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben, 
And passed along toward the side over against Arabah northward, and went down unto Arabah: 
And the border passed along to the side of Bethhoglah northward: and the outgoings of the border were at the north bay of the salt sea at the south end of Jordan: this was the south coast. 
And Jordan was the border of it on the east side. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the coasts thereof round about, according to their families. 
Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Bethhoglah, and the valley of Keziz, 
And Betharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, 
And Avim, and Pharah, and Ophrah, 
And Chepharhaammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their villages: 
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth, 
And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, 
And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah, 
And Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families. 
And the second lot came forth to Simeon, even for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families: and their inheritance was within the inheritance of the children of Judah. 
And they had in their inheritance Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah, 
And Hazarshual, and Balah, and Azem, 
And Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah, 
And Ziklag, and Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusah, 
And Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities and their villages: 
Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages: 
And all the villages that were round about these cities to Baalathbeer, Ramath of the south. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. 
Out of the portion of the children of Judah was the inheritance of the children of Simeon: for the part of the children of Judah was too much for them: therefore the children of Simeon had their inheritance within the inheritance of them. 
And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families: and the border of their inheritance was unto Sarid: 
And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, and reached to Dabbasheth, and reached to the river that is before Jokneam; 
And turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrising unto the border of Chislothtabor, and then goeth out to Daberath, and goeth up to Japhia, 
And from thence passeth on along on the east to Gittahhepher, to Ittahkazin, and goeth out to Remmonmethoar to Neah; 
And the border compasseth it on the north side to Hannathon: and the outgoings thereof are in the valley of Jiphthahel: 
And Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities with their villages. 
This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages. 
And the fourth lot came out to Issachar, for the children of Issachar according to their families. 
And their border was toward Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem, 
And Haphraim, and Shihon, and Anaharath, 
And Rabbith, and Kishion, and Abez, 
And Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez; 
And the coast reacheth to Tabor, and Shahazimah, and Bethshemesh; and the outgoings of their border were at Jordan: sixteen cities with their villages. 
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages. 
And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families. 
And their border was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph, 
And Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal; and reacheth to Carmel westward, and to Shihorlibnath; 
And turneth toward the sunrising to Bethdagon, and reacheth to Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthahel toward the north side of Bethemek, and Neiel, and goeth out to Cabul on the left hand, 
And Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, even unto great Zidon; 
And then the coast turneth to Ramah, and to the strong city Tyre; and the coast turneth to Hosah; and the outgoings thereof are at the sea from the coast to Achzib: 
