Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth. 
Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart. 
As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him. 
As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones. 
Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually. 
Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the LORD, and of them that speak evil against my soul. 
But do thou for me, O GOD the Lord, for thy name's sake: because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me. 
For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me. 
I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust. 
My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness. 
I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me they shaked their heads. 
Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy: 
That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, LORD, hast done it. 
Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice. 
Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle. 
I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude. 
For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul. 
The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool. 
The LORD shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies. 
Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth. 
The LORD hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek. 
The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath. 
He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries. 
He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head. 
Praise ye the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation. 
The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. 
His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness endureth for ever. 
He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the LORD is gracious and full of compassion. 
He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant. 
He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. 
The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure. 
They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness. 
He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name. 
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever. 
Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD, that delighteth greatly in his commandments. 
His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed. 
Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever. 
Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous. 
A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his affairs with discretion. 
Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance. 
He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the LORD. 
His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire upon his enemies. 
He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour. 
The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish. 
Praise ye the LORD. Praise, O ye servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD. 
Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. 
From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the LORD's name is to be praised. 
The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens. 
Who is like unto the LORD our God, who dwelleth on high, 
Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth! 
