Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou, and thy fellows that sit before thee: for they are men wondered at: for, behold, I will bring forth my servant the BRANCH. 
For behold the stone that I have laid before Joshua; upon one stone shall be seven eyes: behold, I will engrave the graving thereof, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. 
In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbour under the vine and under the fig tree. 
And the angel that talked with me came again, and waked me, as a man that is wakened out of his sleep. 
And said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and behold a candlestick all of gold, with a bowl upon the top of it, and his seven lamps thereon, and seven pipes to the seven lamps, which are upon the top thereof: 
And two olive trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thereof. 
So I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, saying, What are these, my lord? 
Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my lord. 
Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the LORD unto Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the LORD of hosts. 
Who art thou, O great mountain? before Zerubbabel thou shalt become a plain: and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, Grace, grace unto it. 
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also finish it; and thou shalt know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto you. 
For who hath despised the day of small things? for they shall rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel with those seven; they are the eyes of the LORD, which run to and fro through the whole earth. 
Then answered I, and said unto him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left side thereof? 
And I answered again, and said unto him, What be these two olive branches which through the two golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves? 
And he answered me and said, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my lord. 
Then said he, These are the two anointed ones, that stand by the LORD of the whole earth. 
Then I turned, and lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a flying roll. 
And he said unto me, What seest thou? And I answered, I see a flying roll; the length thereof is twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof ten cubits. 
Then said he unto me, This is the curse that goeth forth over the face of the whole earth: for every one that stealeth shall be cut off as on this side according to it; and every one that sweareth shall be cut off as on that side according to it. 
I will bring it forth, saith the LORD of hosts, and it shall enter into the house of the thief, and into the house of him that sweareth falsely by my name: and it shall remain in the midst of his house, and shall consume it with the timber thereof and the stones thereof. 
Then the angel that talked with me went forth, and said unto me, Lift up now thine eyes, and see what is this that goeth forth. 
And I said, What is it? And he said, This is an ephah that goeth forth. He said moreover, This is their resemblance through all the earth. 
And, behold, there was lifted up a talent of lead: and this is a woman that sitteth in the midst of the ephah. 
And he said, This is wickedness. And he cast it into the midst of the ephah; and he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof. 
Then lifted I up mine eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came out two women, and the wind was in their wings; for they had wings like the wings of a stork: and they lifted up the ephah between the earth and the heaven. 
Then said I to the angel that talked with me, Whither do these bear the ephah? 
And he said unto me, To build it an house in the land of Shinar: and it shall be established, and set there upon her own base. 
And I turned, and lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass. 
In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses; 
And in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grisled and bay horses. 
Then I answered and said unto the angel that talked with me, What are these, my lord? 
And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth from standing before the LORD of all the earth. 
The black horses which are therein go forth into the north country; and the white go forth after them; and the grisled go forth toward the south country. 
And the bay went forth, and sought to go that they might walk to and fro through the earth: and he said, Get you hence, walk to and fro through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth. 
Then cried he upon me, and spake unto me, saying, Behold, these that go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country. 
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, 
Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, which are come from Babylon, and come thou the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah; 
Then take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest; 
And speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is The BRANCH; and he shall grow up out of his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD: 
Even he shall build the temple of the LORD; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and he shall be a priest upon his throne: and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. 
And the crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of the LORD. 
And they that are far off shall come and build in the temple of the LORD, and ye shall know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God. 
And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Darius, that the word of the LORD came unto Zechariah in the fourth day of the ninth month, even in Chisleu; 
When they had sent unto the house of God Sherezer and Regemmelech, and their men, to pray before the LORD, 
And to speak unto the priests which were in the house of the LORD of hosts, and to the prophets, saying, Should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so many years? 
Then came the word of the LORD of hosts unto me, saying, 
Speak unto all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, When ye fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years, did ye at all fast unto me, even to me? 
And when ye did eat, and when ye did drink, did not ye eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves? 
Should ye not hear the words which the LORD hath cried by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and the cities thereof round about her, when men inhabited the south and the plain? 
