And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well: and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep. 
And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and feed them. 
And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we water the sheep. 
And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep; for she kept them. 
And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother. 
And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept. 
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father. 
And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things. 
And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month. 
And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy wages be? 
And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. 
Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well favoured. 
And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter. 
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should give her to another man: abide with me. 
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her. 
And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her. 
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast. 
And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her. 
And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an handmaid. 
And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah: and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me? 
And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn. 
Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years. 
And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also. 
And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid. 
And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years. 
And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb: but Rachel was barren. 
And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction; now therefore my husband will love me. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also: and she called his name Simeon. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons: therefore was his name called Levi. 
And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left bearing. 
And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. 
And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb? 
And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her. 
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her. 
And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son. 
And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan. 
And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son. 
And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali. 
When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife. 
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son. 
And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad. 
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son. 
And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and she called his name Asher. 
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes. 
And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's mandrakes. 
And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that night. 
And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son. 
And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar. 
And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son. 
And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun. 
