But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow. 
For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images. 
When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel: 
So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men; 
And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy's hand. 
He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance. 
The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage. 
Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation. 
Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine. 
And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach. 
Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim: 
But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved. 
And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established for ever. 
He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds: 
From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance. 
So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands. 
O god, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps. 
The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth. 
Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them. 
We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us. 
How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire? 
Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name. 
For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place. 
O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low. 
Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake. 
Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed. 
Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die; 
And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord. 
So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations. 
Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth. 
Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come and save us. 
Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. 
O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? 
Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure. 
Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves. 
Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. 
Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it. 
Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. 
The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars. 
She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river. 
Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her? 
The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it. 
Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine; 
And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madest strong for thyself. 
It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. 
Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself. 
So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. 
Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. 
Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob. 
Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery. 
