Then the priest shall command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, and they shall cast them into an unclean place without the city: 
And he shall cause the house to be scraped within round about, and they shall pour out the dust that they scrape off without the city into an unclean place: 
And they shall take other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and he shall take other morter, and shall plaister the house. 
And if the plague come again, and break out in the house, after that he hath taken away the stones, and after he hath scraped the house, and after it is plaistered; 
Then the priest shall come and look, and, behold, if the plague be spread in the house, it is a fretting leprosy in the house; it is unclean. 
And he shall break down the house, the stones of it, and the timber thereof, and all the morter of the house; and he shall carry them forth out of the city into an unclean place. 
Moreover he that goeth into the house all the while that it is shut up shall be unclean until the even. 
And he that lieth in the house shall wash his clothes; and he that eateth in the house shall wash his clothes. 
And if the priest shall come in, and look upon it, and, behold, the plague hath not spread in the house, after the house was plaistered: then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because the plague is healed. 
And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop: 
And he shall kill the one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water: 
And he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times: 
And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet: 
But he shall let go the living bird out of the city into the open fields, and make an atonement for the house: and it shall be clean. 
This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy, and scall, 
And for the leprosy of a garment, and of a house, 
And for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot: 
To teach when it is unclean, and when it is clean: this is the law of leprosy. 
And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying, 
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When any man hath a running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean. 
And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness. 
Every bed, whereon he lieth that hath the issue, is unclean: and every thing, whereon he sitteth, shall be unclean. 
And whosoever toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And he that sitteth on any thing whereon he sat that hath the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And if he that hath the issue spit upon him that is clean; then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And what saddle soever he rideth upon that hath the issue shall be unclean. 
And whosoever toucheth any thing that was under him shall be unclean until the even: and he that beareth any of those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the issue, and hath not rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And the vessel of earth, that he toucheth which hath the issue, shall be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water. 
And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of his issue; then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean. 
And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before the LORD unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and give them unto the priest: 
And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD for his issue. 
And if any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even. 
The woman also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whosoever toucheth her shall be unclean until the even. 
And every thing that she lieth upon in her separation shall be unclean: every thing also that she sitteth upon shall be unclean. 
And whosoever toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And whosoever toucheth any thing that she sat upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
And if it be on her bed, or on any thing whereon she sitteth, when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the even. 
And if any man lie with her at all, and her flowers be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days; and all the bed whereon he lieth shall be unclean. 
And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if it run beyond the time of her separation; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation: she shall be unclean. 
Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of her issue shall be unto her as the bed of her separation: and whatsoever she sitteth upon shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her separation. 
And whosoever toucheth those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even. 
But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean. 
And on the eighth day she shall take unto her two turtles, or two young pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness. 
Thus shall ye separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness; that they die not in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is among them. 
This is the law of him that hath an issue, and of him whose seed goeth from him, and is defiled therewith; 
