Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book! 
That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever! 
For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: 
And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God: 
Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me. 
But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the matter is found in me? 
Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a judgment. 
Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, 
Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste. 
I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer. 
Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth, 
That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the hypocrite but for a moment? 
Though his excellency mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds; 
Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where is he? 
He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night. 
The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall his place any more behold him. 
His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods. 
His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down with him in the dust. 
Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue; 
Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it still within his mouth: 
Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it is the gall of asps within him. 
He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again: God shall cast them out of his belly. 
He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper's tongue shall slay him. 
He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and butter. 
That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be, and he shall not rejoice therein. 
Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he hath violently taken away an house which he builded not; 
Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that which he desired. 
There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man look for his goods. 
In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every hand of the wicked shall come upon him. 
When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating. 
He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall strike him through. 
It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him. 
All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle. 
The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise up against him. 
The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow away in the day of his wrath. 
This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed unto him by God. 
But Job answered and said, 
Hear diligently my speech, and let this be your consolations. 
Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on. 
As for me, is my complaint to man? and if it were so, why should not my spirit be troubled? 
Mark me, and be astonished, and lay your hand upon your mouth. 
Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my flesh. 
Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power? 
Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes. 
Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them. 
Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf. 
They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. 
They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the organ. 
They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the grave. 
Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways. 
