The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted. 
The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. 
Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he hath made in the earth. 
He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire. 
Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth. 
The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. 
O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice of triumph. 
For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth. 
He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet. 
He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved. Selah. 
God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet. 
Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King, sing praises. 
For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with understanding. 
God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness. 
The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God: he is greatly exalted. 
Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. 
Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King. 
God is known in her palaces for a refuge. 
For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together. 
They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and hasted away. 
Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in travail. 
Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind. 
As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah. 
We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. 
According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness. 
Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments. 
Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. 
Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following. 
For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide even unto death. 
Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world: 
Both low and high, rich and poor, together. 
My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. 
I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp. 
Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? 
They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches; 
None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him: 
(For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever:) 
That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption. 
For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others. 
Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands after their own names. 
Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish. 
This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah. 
Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling. 
But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah. 
Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased; 
For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him. 
Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself. 
He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light. 
Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish. 
The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. 
