Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear. 
Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, 
That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many. 
And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the doors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against his house. 
Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded. 
And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the first, and found written therein, 
These are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city; 
Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was this; 
The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two. 
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. 
The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two. 
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen. 
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five. 
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore. 
The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight. 
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight. 
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two. 
The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven. 
The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven. 
The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five. 
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. 
The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight. 
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four. 
The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve. 
The children of Gibeon, ninety and five. 
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore and eight. 
The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight. 
The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two. 
The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three. 
The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one. 
The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two. 
The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three. 
The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two. 
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. 
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. 
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five. 
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and one. 
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. 
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. 
The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. 
The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven. 
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. 
The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four. 
The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight. 
The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight. 
The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha, the children of Tabbaoth, 
The children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, 
The children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, 
The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 
