But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation. 
Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep. 
Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets. 
But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you, 
Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you. 
And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also. 
Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again. 
And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise. 
For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? for sinners also love those that love them. 
And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? for sinners also do even the same. 
And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again. 
But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. 
Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. 
Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: 
Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again. 
And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch? 
The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master. 
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 
Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye. 
For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 
For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes. 
A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh. 
And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say? 
Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I will shew you to whom he is like: 
He is like a man which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock. 
But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great. 
Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum. 
And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die. 
And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. 
And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this: 
For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue. 
Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof: 
Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed. 
For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 
When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 
And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick. 
And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people. 
Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her. 
And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. 
And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise. 
And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother. 
And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people. 
And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about. 
And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things. 
And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another? 
When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another? 
And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were blind he gave sight. 
Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. 
And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me. 
And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind? 
