They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. 
But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham. 
Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God. 
Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me. 
Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word. 
Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. 
And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. 
Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me? 
He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God. 
Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? 
Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me. 
And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth. 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. 
Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death. 
Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself? 
Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God: 
Yet ye have not known him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying. 
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and was glad. 
Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? 
Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am. 
Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by. 
And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. 
And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind? 
Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. 
I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. 
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay, 
And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing. 
The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? 
Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he. 
Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened? 
He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight. 
Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not. 
They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind. 
And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 
Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. 
Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. 
They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet. 
But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight. 
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see? 
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind: 
But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. 
These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. 
Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him. 
Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner. 
He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. 
Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes? 
He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples? 
Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. 
We know that God spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know not from whence he is. 
