For vain men would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass's colt. 
If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him; 
If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles. 
For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear: 
Because thou shalt forget thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away: 
And thine age shall be clearer than the noonday: thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning. 
And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety. 
Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea, many shall make suit unto thee. 
But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost. 
And Job answered and said, 
No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you. 
But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these? 
I am as one mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him: the just upright man is laughed to scorn. 
He that is ready to slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease. 
The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are secure; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly. 
But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee: 
Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee. 
Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath wrought this? 
In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind. 
Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat? 
With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days understanding. 
With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding. 
Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening. 
Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth. 
With him is strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver are his. 
He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges fools. 
He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a girdle. 
He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty. 
He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged. 
He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of the mighty. 
He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of death. 
He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the nations, and straiteneth them again. 
He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way. 
They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to stagger like a drunken man. 
Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and understood it. 
What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto you. 
Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God. 
But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value. 
O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your wisdom. 
Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips. 
Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him? 
Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God? 
Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do ye so mock him? 
He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons. 
Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you? 
Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to bodies of clay. 
Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what will. 
Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand? 
Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him. 
He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come before him. 
