And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead. 
And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. 
And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre. 
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he was laid. 
And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him. 
And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun. 
And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre? 
And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very great. 
And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted. 
And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold the place where they laid him. 
But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you. 
And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they trembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for they were afraid. 
Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils. 
And she went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept. 
And they, when they had heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, believed not. 
After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they walked, and went into the country. 
And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believed they them. 
Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen. 
And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. 
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. 
And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 
They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. 
So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God. 
And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen. 
Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, 
Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word; 
It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, 
That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed. 
THERE was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. 
And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. 
And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years. 
And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course, 
According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. 
And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense. 
And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. 
And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. 
But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. 
And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth. 
For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. 
And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God. 
And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. 
And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years. 
And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings. 
And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season. 
And the people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he tarried so long in the temple. 
And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned unto them, and remained speechless. 
And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house. 
And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying, 
Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men. 
And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, 
