Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 
And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force. 
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. 
And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come. 
He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows, 
And saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented. 
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil. 
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children. 
Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not: 
Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. 
But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment, than for you. 
And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. 
But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee. 
At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. 
Even so, Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight. 
All things are delivered unto me of my Father: and no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him. 
Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. 
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. 
At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn; and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn and to eat. 
But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the sabbath day. 
But he said unto them, Have ye not read what David did, when he was an hungred, and they that were with him; 
How he entered into the house of God, and did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the priests? 
Or have ye not read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless? 
But I say unto you, That in this place is one greater than the temple. 
But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless. 
For the Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath day. 
And when he was departed thence, he went into their synagogue: 
And, behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath days? that they might accuse him. 
And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you, that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out? 
How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days. 
Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other. 
Then the Pharisees went out, and held a council against him, how they might destroy him. 
But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all; 
And charged them that they should not make him known: 
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, 
Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew judgment to the Gentiles. 
He shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. 
A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. 
And in his name shall the Gentiles trust. 
Then was brought unto him one possessed with a devil, blind, and dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and saw. 
And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of David? 
But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils. 
And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand: 
And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand? 
And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? therefore they shall be your judges. 
But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you. 
Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he will spoil his house. 
He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. 
