And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof; 
And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. 
And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man. 
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh. 
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. 
Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? 
And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden: 
But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. 
And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. 
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat. 
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons. 
And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden. 
And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou? 
And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself. 
And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? 
And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. 
And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. 
And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life: 
And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. 
Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. 
And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field; 
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. 
And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all living. 
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and clothed them. 
And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: 
Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken. 
So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life. 
And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD. 
And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. 
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD. 
And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering: 
But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. 
And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen? 
If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. 
And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him. 
And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper? 
And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. 
And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; 
When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth. 
And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear. 
Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall slay me. 
And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him. 
And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden. 
And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch. 
And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech. 
And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. 
And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle. 
And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ. 
