And he made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubims made he it of cunning work. 
And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver. 
And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework; 
And the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets were of brass. 
And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it: 
And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about. 
And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the four corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings upon the other side of it. 
And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to bear the ark. 
And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof. 
And he made two cherubims of gold, beaten out of one piece made he them, on the two ends of the mercy seat; 
One cherub on the end on this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side: out of the mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof. 
And the cherubims spread out their wings on high, and covered with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another; even to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims. 
And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof: 
And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made thereunto a crown of gold round about. 
Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about; and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about. 
And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon the four corners that were in the four feet thereof. 
Over against the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table. 
And he made the vessels which were upon the table, his dishes, and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, of pure gold. 
And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work made he the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, were of the same: 
And six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof: 
Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick. 
And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, his knops, and his flowers: 
And a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it. 
Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it was one beaten work of pure gold. 
And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his snuffdishes, of pure gold. 
Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vessels thereof. 
And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length of it was a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and two cubits was the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same. 
And he overlaid it with pure gold, both the top of it, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it a crown of gold round about. 
And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for the staves to bear it withal. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold. 
And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary. 
And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: five cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; it was foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof. 
And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; the horns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass. 
And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basons, and the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all the vessels thereof made he of brass. 
And he made for the altar a brasen grate of network under the compass thereof beneath unto the midst of it. 
And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass, to be places for the staves. 
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with brass. 
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards. 
And he made the laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, of the lookingglasses of the women assembling, which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. 
And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits: 
Their pillars were twenty, and their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. 
And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits, their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. 
And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver. 
And for the east side eastward fifty cubits. 
The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. 
All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen. 
And the sockets for the pillars were of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver. 
