A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken. 
The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness. 
All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast. 
Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith. 
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. 
A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife. 
The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain. 
A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother. 
Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly. 
Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established. 
A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it! 
The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath. 
The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow. 
The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but the words of the pure are pleasant words. 
He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live. 
The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things. 
The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous. 
The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat. 
The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise. 
He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding. 
The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility. 
The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD. 
All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the spirits. 
Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established. 
The LORD hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil. 
Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD: though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished. 
By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil. 
When a man's ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him. 
Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right. 
A man's heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps. 
A divine sentence is in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment. 
A just weight and balance are the LORD's: all the weights of the bag are his work. 
It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness. 
Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right. 
The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it. 
In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain. 
How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver! 
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul. 
Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall. 
Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud. 
He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the LORD, happy is he. 
The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning. 
Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly. 
The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips. 
Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones. 
There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. 
He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him. 
An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire. 
A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends. 
A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good. 
