They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no helper. 
They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the desolation they rolled themselves upon me. 
Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and my welfare passeth away as a cloud. 
And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction have taken hold upon me. 
My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews take no rest. 
By the great force of my disease is my garment changed: it bindeth me about as the collar of my coat. 
He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and ashes. 
I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou regardest me not. 
Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest thyself against me. 
Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride upon it, and dissolvest my substance. 
For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house appointed for all living. 
Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave, though they cry in his destruction. 
Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul grieved for the poor? 
When I looked for good, then evil came unto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkness. 
My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction prevented me. 
I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, and I cried in the congregation. 
I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls. 
My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat. 
My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep. 
I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a maid? 
For what portion of God is there from above? and what inheritance of the Almighty from on high? 
Is not destruction to the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity? 
Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps? 
If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit; 
Let me be weighed in an even balance that God may know mine integrity. 
If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands; 
Then let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out. 
If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid wait at my neighbour's door; 
Then let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her. 
For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be punished by the judges. 
For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase. 
If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they contended with me; 
What then shall I do when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him? 
Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb? 
If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail; 
Or have eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof; 
(For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a father, and I have guided her from my mother's womb;) 
If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering; 
If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep; 
If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate: 
Then let mine arm fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone. 
For destruction from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his highness I could not endure. 
If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence; 
If I rejoice because my wealth was great, and because mine hand had gotten much; 
If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness; 
And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand: 
This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge: for I should have denied the God that is above. 
If I rejoice at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him: 
Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul. 
If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his flesh! we cannot be satisfied. 
