And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover. 
And in the evening he cometh with the twelve. 
And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me. 
And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? and another said, Is it I? 
And he answered and said unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish. 
The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had never been born. 
And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body. 
And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them: and they all drank of it. 
And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many. 
Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God. 
And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives. 
And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. 
But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. 
But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. 
And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. 
But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all. 
And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray. 
And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy; 
And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch. 
And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. 
And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt. 
And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour? 
Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. 
And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words. 
And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him. 
And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 
Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand. 
And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. 
And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away safely. 
And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and saith, Master, master; and kissed him. 
And they laid their hands on him, and took him. 
And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear. 
And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and with staves to take me? 
I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but the scriptures must be fulfilled. 
And they all forsook him, and fled. 
And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen cloth cast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him: 
And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked. 
And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. 
And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire. 
And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death; and found none. 
For many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together. 
And there arose certain, and bare false witness against him, saying, 
We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands. 
But neither so did their witness agree together. 
And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? 
But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? 
And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven. 
Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we any further witnesses? 
Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death. 
And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands. 
