Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof. 
Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness. 
They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side. 
The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing. 
Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands: 
Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious. 
Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee. 
All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing to thy name. Selah. 
Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men. 
He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him. 
He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah. 
O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard: 
Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved. 
For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried. 
Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins. 
Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place. 
I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows, 
Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble. 
I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah. 
Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul. 
I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue. 
If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me: 
But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer. 
Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me. 
God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us; Selah. 
That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations. 
Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee. 
O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah. 
Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee. 
Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us. 
God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him. 
Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him. 
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God. 
But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice. 
Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him. 
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation. 
God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land. 
O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah: 
The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 
Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary. 
Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor. 
The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it. 
Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil. 
Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold. 
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon. 
The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan. 
Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell in it for ever. 
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place. 
Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell among them. 
Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah. 
