Great is my boldness of speech toward you, great is my glorying of you: I am filled with comfort, I am exceeding joyful in all our tribulation. 
For, when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on every side; without were fightings, within were fears. 
Nevertheless God, that comforteth those that are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus; 
And not by his coming only, but by the consolation wherewith he was comforted in you, when he told us your earnest desire, your mourning, your fervent mind toward me; so that I rejoiced the more. 
For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made you sorry, though it were but for a season. 
Now I rejoice, not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance: for ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye might receive damage by us in nothing. 
For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of: but the sorrow of the world worketh death. 
For behold this selfsame thing, that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, yea, what clearing of yourselves, yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what zeal, yea, what revenge! In all things ye have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter. 
Wherefore, though I wrote unto you, I did it not for his cause that had done the wrong, nor for his cause that suffered wrong, but that our care for you in the sight of God might appear unto you. 
Therefore we were comforted in your comfort: yea, and exceedingly the more joyed we for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all. 
For if I have boasted any thing to him of you, I am not ashamed; but as we spake all things to you in truth, even so our boasting, which I made before Titus, is found a truth. 
And his inward affection is more abundant toward you, whilst he remembereth the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling ye received him. 
I rejoice therefore that I have confidence in you in all things. 
Moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia; 
How that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their liberality. 
For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves; 
Praying us with much intreaty that we would receive the gift, and take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. 
And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God. 
Insomuch that we desired Titus, that as he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also. 
Therefore, as ye abound in every thing, in faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your love to us, see that ye abound in this grace also. 
I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others, and to prove the sincerity of your love. 
For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that, though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. 
And herein I give my advice: for this is expedient for you, who have begun before, not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. 
Now therefore perform the doing of it; that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. 
For it there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. 
For I mean not that other men be eased, and ye burdened: 
But by an equality, that now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply for your want: that there may be equality: 
As it is written, He that had gathered much had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had no lack. 
But thanks be to God, which put the same earnest care into the heart of Titus for you. 
For indeed he accepted the exhortation; but being more forward, of his own accord he went unto you. 
And we have sent with him the brother, whose praise is in the gospel throughout all the churches; 
And not that only, but who was also chosen of the churches to travel with us with this grace, which is administered by us to the glory of the same Lord, and declaration of your ready mind: 
Avoiding this, that no man should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us: 
Providing for honest things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men. 
And we have sent with them our brother, whom we have oftentimes proved diligent in many things, but now much more diligent, upon the great confidence which I have in you. 
Whether any do enquire of Titus, he is my partner and fellowhelper concerning you: or our brethren be enquired of, they are the messengers of the churches, and the glory of Christ. 
Wherefore shew ye to them, and before the churches, the proof of your love, and of our boasting on your behalf. 
For as touching the ministering to the saints, it is superfluous for me to write to you: 
For I know the forwardness of your mind, for which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that Achaia was ready a year ago; and your zeal hath provoked very many. 
Yet have I sent the brethren, lest our boasting of you should be in vain in this behalf; that, as I said, ye may be ready: 
Lest haply if they of Macedonia come with me, and find you unprepared, we (that we say not, ye) should be ashamed in this same confident boasting. 
Therefore I thought it necessary to exhort the brethren, that they would go before unto you, and make up beforehand your bounty, whereof ye had notice before, that the same might be ready, as a matter of bounty, and not as of covetousness. 
But this I say, He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully. 
Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give; not grudgingly, or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver. 
And God is able to make all grace abound toward you; that ye, always having all sufficiency in all things, may abound to every good work: 
(As it is written, He hath dispersed abroad; he hath given to the poor: his righteousness remaineth for ever. 
Now he that ministereth seed to the sower both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits of your righteousness;) 
Being enriched in every thing to all bountifulness, which causeth through us thanksgiving to God. 
For the administration of this service not only supplieth the want of the saints, but is abundant also by many thanksgivings unto God; 
Whiles by the experiment of this ministration they glorify God for your professed subjection unto the gospel of Christ, and for your liberal distribution unto them, and unto all men; 
