Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness. 
My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver. 
I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment: 
That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures. 
The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. 
I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. 
When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. 
Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth: 
While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. 
When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth: 
When he established the clouds above: when he strengthened the fountains of the deep: 
When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment: when he appointed the foundations of the earth: 
Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him; 
Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men. 
Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that keep my ways. 
Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not. 
Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. 
For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD. 
But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death. 
Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars: 
She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine; she hath also furnished her table. 
She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest places of the city, 
Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, 
Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled. 
Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding. 
He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot. 
Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee. 
Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just man, and he will increase in learning. 
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. 
For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased. 
If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it. 
A foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing. 
For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city, 
To call passengers who go right on their ways: 
Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, 
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. 
But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests are in the depths of hell. 
The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. 
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death. 
The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked. 
He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. 
He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. 
Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. 
The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot. 
The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall. 
He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth his ways shall be known. 
He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall. 
The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked. 
Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins. 
In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding. 
