For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps: 
Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: 
Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously: 
Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed. 
For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls. 
Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives; 
While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. 
Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel; 
But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. 
For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands: 
Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement. 
Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life; that your prayers be not hindered. 
Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous: 
Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing. 
For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile: 
Let him eschew evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it. 
For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. 
And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good? 
But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled; 
But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear: 
Having a good conscience; that, whereas they speak evil of you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. 
For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing, than for evil doing. 
For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit: 
By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison; 
Which sometime were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. 
The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ: 
Who is gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him. 
Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind: for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin; 
That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God. 
For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries: 
Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you: 
Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead. 
For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. 
But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer. 
And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. 
Use hospitality one to another without grudging. 
As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. 
If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. 
Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you: 
But rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings; that, when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. 
If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified. 
But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters. 
Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God on this behalf. 
For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God: and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God? 
And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? 
Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well doing, as unto a faithful Creator. 
The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed: 
Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly; not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; 
Neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock. 
And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. 
