In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. 
For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. 
So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. 
O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? 
The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law. 
But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmoveable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labour is not in vain in the Lord. 
Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye. 
Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come. 
And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem. 
And if it be meet that I go also, they shall go with me. 
Now I will come unto you, when I shall pass through Macedonia: for I do pass through Macedonia. 
And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go. 
For I will not see you now by the way; but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit. 
But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost. 
For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries. 
Now if Timotheus come, see that he may be with you without fear: for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do. 
Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in peace, that he may come unto me: for I look for him with the brethren. 
As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come unto you with the brethren: but his will was not at all to come at this time; but he will come when he shall have convenient time. 
Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong. 
Let all your things be done with charity. 
I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints,) 
That ye submit yourselves unto such, and to every one that helpeth with us, and laboureth. 
I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied. 
For they have refreshed my spirit and your's: therefore acknowledge ye them that are such. 
The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house. 
All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with an holy kiss. 
The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand. 
If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints which are in all Achaia: 
Grace be to you and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort; 
Who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. 
For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. 
And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. 
And our hope of you is stedfast, knowing, that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation. 
For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life: 
But we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raiseth the dead: 
Who delivered us from so great a death, and doth deliver: in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us; 
Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by many on our behalf. 
For our rejoicing is this, the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have had our conversation in the world, and more abundantly to you-ward. 
For we write none other things unto you, that what ye read or acknowledge; and I trust ye shall acknowledge even to the end; 
As also ye have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, even as ye also are our's in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
And in this confidence I was minded to come unto you before, that ye might have a second benefit; 
And to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again out of Macedonia unto you, and of you to be brought on my way toward Judaea. 
When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? or the things that I purpose, do I purpose according to the flesh, that with me there should be yea yea, and nay nay? 
But as God is true, our word toward you was not yea and nay. 
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Silvanus and Timotheus, was not yea and nay, but in him was yea. 
