He maketh a path to shine after him; one would think the deep to be hoary. 
Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear. 
He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children of pride. 
Then Job answered the LORD, and said, 
I know that thou canst do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. 
Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. 
Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. 
I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee. 
Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes. 
And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath. 
Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job. 
So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the LORD also accepted Job. 
And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before. 
Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold. 
So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses. 
He had also seven sons and three daughters. 
And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch. 
And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. 
After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, even four generations. 
So Job died, being old and full of days. 
Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. 
But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he meditate day and night. 
And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. 
The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. 
Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. 
For the LORD knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish. 
Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing? 
The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying, 
Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. 
He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have them in derision. 
Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure. 
Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. 
I will declare the decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my Son; this day have I begotten thee. 
Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. 
Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. 
Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth. 
Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling. 
Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. 
Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that rise up against me. 
Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. Selah. 
But thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up of mine head. 
I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Selah. 
I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained me. 
I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set themselves against me round about. 
Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. 
Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah. 
Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer. 
O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah. 
But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him. 
Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah. 
