And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah. 
And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb. 
And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away my reproach: 
And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD shall add to me another son. 
And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country. 
Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee. 
And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake. 
And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it. 
And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me. 
For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also? 
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock. 
I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such shall be my hire. 
So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me. 
And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word. 
And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons. 
And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks. 
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods. 
And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink. 
And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted. 
And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle. 
And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods. 
But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's. 
And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses. 
And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory. 
And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before. 
And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee. 
And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock, 
And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me. 
And ye know that with all my power I have served your father. 
And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me. 
If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked. 
Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given them to me. 
And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled. 
And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob: And I said, Here am I. 
And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee. 
I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred. 
And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house? 
Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money. 
For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do. 
Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels; 
And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan. 
And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's. 
And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled. 
So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead. 
And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled. 
And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead. 
And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad. 
Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead. 
And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives taken with the sword? 
Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp? 
