Then Job answered and said, 
Even to day is my complaint bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning. 
Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to his seat! 
I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments. 
I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me. 
Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would put strength in me. 
There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be delivered for ever from my judge. 
Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I cannot perceive him: 
On the left hand, where he doth work, but I cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him: 
But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. 
My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined. 
Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. 
But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul desireth, even that he doeth. 
For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many such things are with him. 
Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am afraid of him. 
For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me: 
Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he covered the darkness from my face. 
Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that know him not see his days? 
Some remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks, and feed thereof. 
They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge. 
They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide themselves together. 
Behold, as wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness yieldeth food for them and for their children. 
They reap every one his corn in the field: and they gather the vintage of the wicked. 
They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no covering in the cold. 
They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for want of a shelter. 
They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor. 
They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaf from the hungry; 
Which make oil within their walls, and tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst. 
Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them. 
They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof. 
The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy, and in the night is as a thief. 
The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me: and disguiseth his face. 
In the dark they dig through houses, which they had marked for themselves in the daytime: they know not the light. 
For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death: if one know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death. 
He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth: he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards. 
Drought and heat consume the snow waters: so doth the grave those which have sinned. 
The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a tree. 
He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not good to the widow. 
He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no man is sure of life. 
Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet his eyes are upon their ways. 
They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn. 
And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth? 
Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 
Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high places. 
Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his light arise? 
How then can man be justified with God? or how can he be clean that is born of a woman? 
Behold even to the moon, and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight. 
How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a worm? 
But Job answered and said, 
How hast thou helped him that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength? 
