At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place. 
Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goeth out of his mouth. 
He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto the ends of the earth. 
After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard. 
God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend. 
For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength. 
He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work. 
Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places. 
Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north. 
By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the waters is straitened. 
Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his bright cloud: 
And it is turned round about by his counsels: that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth. 
He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy. 
Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God. 
Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of his cloud to shine? 
Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge? 
How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the south wind? 
Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong, and as a molten looking glass? 
Teach us what we shall say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness. 
Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up. 
And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but the wind passeth, and cleanseth them. 
Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God is terrible majesty. 
Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not afflict. 
Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise of heart. 
Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, 
Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? 
Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. 
Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding. 
Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it? 
Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof; 
When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? 
Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it had issued out of the womb? 
When I made the cloud the garment thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it, 
And brake up for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors, 
And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud waves be stayed? 
Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days; and caused the dayspring to know his place; 
That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out of it? 
It is turned as clay to the seal; and they stand as a garment. 
And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm shall be broken. 
Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou walked in the search of the depth? 
Have the gates of death been opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death? 
Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou knowest it all. 
Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness, where is the place thereof, 
That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the house thereof? 
Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or because the number of thy days is great? 
Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, 
Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war? 
By what way is the light parted, which scattereth the east wind upon the earth? 
Who hath divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the lightning of thunder; 
To cause it to rain on the earth, where no man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man; 
