For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. 
Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake. 
For for this cause pay ye tribute also: for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. 
Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour. 
Owe no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. 
For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
Love worketh no ill to his neighbour: therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. 
And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep: for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. 
The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light. 
Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. 
But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof. 
Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. 
For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who is weak, eateth herbs. 
Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him. 
Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand. 
One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. 
He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks. 
For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself. 
For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's. 
For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living. 
But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. 
For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. 
So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. 
Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. 
I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean. 
But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died. 
Let not then your good be evil spoken of: 
For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. 
For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God, and approved of men. 
Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. 
For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence. 
It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak. 
Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth. 
And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin. 
We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. 
Let every one of us please his neighbour for his good to edification. 
For even Christ pleased not himself; but, as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me. 
For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. 
Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be likeminded one toward another according to Christ Jesus: 
That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Wherefore receive ye one another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God. 
Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers: 
And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, and sing unto thy name. 
And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people. 
And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, all ye people. 
And again, Esaias saith, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentiles trust. 
Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost. 
And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. 
Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is given to me of God, 
That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost. 
