Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun: 
But if a man live many years, and rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity. 
Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. 
Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity. 
Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them; 
While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain: 
In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened, 
And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of musick shall be brought low; 
Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets: 
Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern. 
Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it. 
Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher; all is vanity. 
And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs. 
The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that which was written was upright, even words of truth. 
The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd. 
And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh. 
Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. 
For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil. 
The song of songs, which is Solomon's. 
Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth: for thy love is better than wine. 
Because of the savour of thy good ointments thy name is as ointment poured forth, therefore do the virgins love thee. 
Draw me, we will run after thee: the king hath brought me into his chambers: we will be glad and rejoice in thee, we will remember thy love more than wine: the upright love thee. 
I am black, but comely, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Kedar, as the curtains of Solomon. 
Look not upon me, because I am black, because the sun hath looked upon me: my mother's children were angry with me; they made me the keeper of the vineyards; but mine own vineyard have I not kept. 
Tell me, O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest, where thou makest thy flock to rest at noon: for why should I be as one that turneth aside by the flocks of thy companions? 
If thou know not, O thou fairest among women, go thy way forth by the footsteps of the flock, and feed thy kids beside the shepherds' tents. 
I have compared thee, O my love, to a company of horses in Pharaoh's chariots. 
Thy cheeks are comely with rows of jewels, thy neck with chains of gold. 
We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver. 
While the king sitteth at his table, my spikenard sendeth forth the smell thereof. 
A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me; he shall lie all night betwixt my breasts. 
My beloved is unto me as a cluster of camphire in the vineyards of Engedi. 
Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; thou hast doves' eyes. 
Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, yea, pleasant: also our bed is green. 
The beams of our house are cedar, and our rafters of fir. 
I am the rose of Sharon, and the lily of the valleys. 
As the lily among thorns, so is my love among the daughters. 
As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste. 
He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love. 
Stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples: for I am sick of love. 
His left hand is under my head, and his right hand doth embrace me. 
I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes, and by the hinds of the field, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love, till he please. 
The voice of my beloved! behold, he cometh leaping upon the mountains, skipping upon the hills. 
My beloved is like a roe or a young hart: behold, he standeth behind our wall, he looketh forth at the windows, shewing himself through the lattice. 
My beloved spake, and said unto me, Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away. 
For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; 
The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land; 
The fig tree putteth forth her green figs, and the vines with the tender grape give a good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away. 
O my dove, that art in the clefts of the rock, in the secret places of the stairs, let me see thy countenance, let me hear thy voice; for sweet is thy voice, and thy countenance is comely. 
Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vines: for our vines have tender grapes. 
