And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever. 
By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion. 
We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. 
For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. 
How shall we sing the LORD's song in a strange land? 
If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning. 
If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy. 
Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof. 
O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us. 
Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones. 
I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise unto thee. 
I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name. 
In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul. 
All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O LORD, when they hear the words of thy mouth. 
Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the LORD: for great is the glory of the LORD. 
Though the LORD be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off. 
Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me. 
The LORD will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O LORD, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands. 
O lord, thou hast searched me, and known me. 
Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off. 
Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways. 
For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether. 
Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. 
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it. 
Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence? 
If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there. 
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; 
Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. 
If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me. 
Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee. 
For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. 
I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well. 
My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. 
Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. 
How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them! 
If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee. 
Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men. 
For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain. 
Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee? 
I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies. 
Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts: 
And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. 
Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man; 
Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war. 
They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah. 
Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings. 
The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah. 
I said unto the LORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD. 
