This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you. 
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. 
I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be. 
And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased. 
I would they were even cut off which trouble you. 
For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. 
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 
But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. 
This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh. 
For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would. 
But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. 
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, 
Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, 
Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. 
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, 
Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law. 
And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. 
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. 
Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another. 
Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. 
Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ. 
For if a man think himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. 
But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another. 
For every man shall bear his own burden. 
Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things. 
Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. 
For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. 
And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not. 
As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith. 
Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand. 
As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. 
For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law; but desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh. 
But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. 
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature. 
And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God. 
From henceforth let no man trouble me: for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. 
Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus: 
Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ. 
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ: 
According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love: 
Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, 
To the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. 
In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace; 
Wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence; 
Having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself: 
That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him: 
In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will: 
That we should be to the praise of his glory, who first trusted in Christ. 
In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation: in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that holy Spirit of promise, 
