But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things. 
I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth. 
Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son. 
Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also. 
Let that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father. 
And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life. 
These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you. 
But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him. 
And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his coming. 
If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one that doeth righteousness is born of him. 
Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. 
Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. 
And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. 
Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law. 
And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin. 
Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. 
Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. 
He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. 
Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God. 
In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. 
For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. 
Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous. 
Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. 
We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. 
Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. 
Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. 
But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? 
My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth. 
And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him. 
For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. 
Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God. 
And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. 
And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment. 
And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us. 
Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the world. 
Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: 
And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God: and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world. 
Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world. 
They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. 
We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error. 
Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. 
He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. 
In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. 
Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. 
Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. 
No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. 
Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit. 
And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world. 
Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. 
And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. 
