Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears. 
Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be justified. 
Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost. 
Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from thee. 
Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me afraid. 
Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer thou me. 
How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my transgression and my sin. 
Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy? 
Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue the dry stubble? 
For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth. 
Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet. 
And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth eaten. 
Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble. 
He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. 
And doth thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee? 
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one. 
Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; 
Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day. 
For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. 
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; 
Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant. 
But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he? 
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up: 
So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. 
O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me! 
If a man die, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come. 
Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thine hands. 
For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin? 
My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity. 
And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought, and the rock is removed out of his place. 
The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man. 
Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. 
His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them. 
But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn. 
Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said, 
Should a wise man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind? 
Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he can do no good? 
Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God. 
For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of the crafty. 
Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips testify against thee. 
Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before the hills? 
Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself? 
What knowest thou, that we know not? what understandest thou, which is not in us? 
With us are both the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father. 
Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret thing with thee? 
Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what do thy eyes wink at, 
That thou turnest thy spirit against God, and lettest such words go out of thy mouth? 
What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous? 
Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight. 
How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water? 
