He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill; 
That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people. 
He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the LORD. 
When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language; 
Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion. 
The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back. 
The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs. 
What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back? 
Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills, like lambs? 
Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob; 
Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters. 
Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, and for thy truth's sake. 
Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? 
But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. 
Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. 
They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not: 
They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not: 
They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat. 
They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them. 
O Israel, trust thou in the LORD: he is their help and their shield. 
O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield. 
Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield. 
The LORD hath been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron. 
He will bless them that fear the LORD, both small and great. 
The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your children. 
Ye are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth. 
The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's: but the earth hath he given to the children of men. 
The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into silence. 
But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the LORD. 
I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications. 
Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live. 
The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow. 
Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. 
Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful. 
The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me. 
Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee. 
For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling. 
I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living. 
I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted: 
I said in my haste, All men are liars. 
What shall I render unto the LORD for all his benefits toward me? 
I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the LORD. 
I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people. 
Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints. 
O LORD, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds. 
I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the LORD. 
I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people. 
In the courts of the LORD's house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD. 
O praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people. 
For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the LORD endureth for ever. Praise ye the LORD. 
