How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast thou plentifully declared the thing as it is? 
To whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee? 
Dead things are formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof. 
Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering. 
He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing. 
He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is not rent under them. 
He holdeth back the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud upon it. 
He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and night come to an end. 
The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof. 
He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through the proud. 
By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath formed the crooked serpent. 
Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand? 
Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, 
As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul; 
All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils; 
My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit. 
God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me. 
My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart shall not reproach me so long as I live. 
Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me as the unrighteous. 
For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained, when God taketh away his soul? 
Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him? 
Will he delight himself in the Almighty? will he always call upon God? 
I will teach you by the hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal. 
Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus altogether vain? 
This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the Almighty. 
If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword: and his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread. 
Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his widows shall not weep. 
Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the clay; 
He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver. 
He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth that the keeper maketh. 
The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he openeth his eyes, and he is not. 
Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away in the night. 
The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a storm hurleth him out of his place. 
For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee out of his hand. 
Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place. 
Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where they fine it. 
Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is molten out of the stone. 
He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection: the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death. 
The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; even the waters forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men. 
As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned up as it were fire. 
The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of gold. 
There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not seen: 
The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it. 
He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the mountains by the roots. 
He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every precious thing. 
He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light. 
But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of understanding? 
Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it found in the land of the living. 
The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not with me. 
It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. 
