Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge. 
There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard. 
Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun, 
Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. 
His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. 
The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple. 
The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes. 
The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether. 
More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. 
Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward. 
Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret faults. 
Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. 
Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer. 
The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend thee; 
Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of Zion; 
Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice; Selah. 
Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy counsel. 
We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions. 
Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand. 
Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the name of the LORD our God. 
They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand upright. 
Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call. 
The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice! 
Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah. 
For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head. 
He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of days for ever and ever. 
His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou laid upon him. 
For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance. 
For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved. 
Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee. 
Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger: the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them. 
Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men. 
For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous device, which they are not able to perform. 
Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them. 
Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sing and praise thy power. 
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring? 
O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent. 
But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel. 
Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them. 
They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded. 
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. 
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, 
He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. 
But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breasts. 
I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother's belly. 
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help. 
Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round. 
They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion. 
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. 
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. 
