And these things give in charge, that they may be blameless. 
But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel. 
Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore years old, having been the wife of one man. 
Well reported of for good works; if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work. 
But the younger widows refuse: for when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry; 
Having damnation, because they have cast off their first faith. 
And withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not. 
I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully. 
For some are already turned aside after Satan. 
If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be charged; that it may relieve them that are widows indeed. 
Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour, especially they who labour in the word and doctrine. 
For the scripture saith, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And, The labourer is worthy of his reward. 
Against an elder receive not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses. 
Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear. 
I charge thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality. 
Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men's sins: keep thyself pure. 
Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities. 
Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment; and some men they follow after. 
Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand; and they that are otherwise cannot be hid. 
Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed. 
And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren; but rather do them service, because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort. 
If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness; 
He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings, 
Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness: from such withdraw thyself. 
But godliness with contentment is great gain. 
For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. 
And having food and raiment let us be therewith content. 
But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. 
For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. 
But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. 
Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. 
I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession; 
That thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ: 
Which in his times he shall shew, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords; 
Who only hath immortality, dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto; whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom be honour and power everlasting. Amen. 
Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy; 
That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate; 
Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life. 
O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so called: 
Which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee. Amen. 
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, 
To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. 
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day; 
Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy; 
When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also. 
Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. 
For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. 
Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God; 
Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began, 
But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel: 
