For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession. 
The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein. 
MAKE HASTE, O GOD, TO DELIVER ME; MAKE HASTE TO HELP ME, O LORD. 
Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt. 
Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha. 
Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified. 
But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarrying. 
In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion. 
Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me. 
Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress. 
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. 
For thou art my hope, O Lord GOD: thou art my trust from my youth. 
By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise shall be continually of thee. 
I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge. 
Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all the day. 
Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth. 
For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together, 
Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him. 
O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help. 
Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt. 
But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more. 
My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof. 
I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only. 
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works. 
Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come. 
Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee! 
Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 
Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side. 
I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel. 
My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed. 
My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt. 
Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son. 
He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment. 
The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness. 
He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor. 
They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations. 
He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth. 
In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth. 
He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth. 
They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust. 
The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 
Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him. 
For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper. 
He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy. 
He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight. 
And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised. 
There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. 
His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed. 
Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things. 
And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen. 
