It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire. 
The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold. 
No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price of wisdom is above rubies. 
The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold. 
Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding? 
Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the fowls of the air. 
Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with our ears. 
God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof. 
For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the whole heaven; 
To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth the waters by measure. 
When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder: 
Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared it, yea, and searched it out. 
And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the LORD, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding. 
Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, 
Oh that I were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me; 
When his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through darkness; 
As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle; 
When the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me; 
When I washed my steps with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil; 
When I went out to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street! 
The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and stood up. 
The princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their mouth. 
The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth. 
When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me: 
Because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him. 
The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. 
I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a robe and a diadem. 
I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame. 
I was a father to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I searched out. 
And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth. 
Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand. 
My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night upon my branch. 
My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand. 
Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my counsel. 
After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon them. 
And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain. 
If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light of my countenance they cast not down. 
I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the army, as one that comforteth the mourners. 
But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock. 
Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me, in whom old age was perished? 
For want and famine they were solitary; fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste. 
Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their meat. 
They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them as after a thief;) 
To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves of the earth, and in the rocks. 
Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were gathered together. 
They were children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were viler than the earth. 
And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword. 
They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in my face. 
Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also let loose the bridle before me. 
Upon my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet, and they raise up against me the ways of their destruction. 
