For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in truth. 
He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the LORD. 
By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. 
He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth up the depth in storehouses. 
Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. 
For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast. 
The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he maketh the devices of the people of none effect. 
The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. 
Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. 
The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men. 
From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. 
He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their works. 
There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength. 
An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. 
Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy; 
To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine. 
Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield. 
For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. 
Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee. 
I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually be in my mouth. 
My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad. 
O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together. 
I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. 
They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed. 
This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. 
The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them. 
O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that trusteth in him. 
O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him. 
The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek the LORD shall not want any good thing. 
Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the LORD. 
What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good? 
Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. 
Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it. 
The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry. 
The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. 
The righteous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles. 
The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. 
Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD delivereth him out of them all. 
He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken. 
Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. 
The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate. 
Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me. 
Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help. 
Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. 
Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt. 
Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the LORD chase them. 
Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD persecute them. 
For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul. 
Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall. 
And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his salvation. 
