He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight. 
I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the LORD. 
Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come unto thee. 
Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily. 
For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth. 
My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread. 
By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin. 
I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert. 
I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top. 
Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me. 
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping. 
Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down. 
My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass. 
But thou, O LORD, shall endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations. 
Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come. 
For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof. 
So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth thy glory. 
When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory. 
He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer. 
This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD. 
For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth; 
To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death; 
To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem; 
When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD. 
He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days. 
I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations. 
Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands. 
They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: 
But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end. 
The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee. 
Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name. 
Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits: 
Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases; 
Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies; 
Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle's. 
The LORD executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. 
He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. 
The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. 
He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever. 
He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. 
For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. 
As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. 
Like as a father pitieth his children, so the LORD pitieth them that fear him. 
For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust. 
As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. 
For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more. 
But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children; 
To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them. 
The LORD hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all. 
Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word. 
