Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders, 
And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. 
And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie: 
That they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. 
But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth: 
Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word, or our epistle. 
Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even our Father, which hath loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace, 
Comfort your hearts, and stablish you in every good word and work. 
Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have free course, and be glorified, even as it is with you: 
And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men: for all men have not faith. 
But the Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keep you from evil. 
And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye both do and will do the things which we command you. 
And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patient waiting for Christ. 
Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us. 
For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us: for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you; 
Neither did we eat any man's bread for nought; but wrought with labour and travail night and day, that we might not be chargeable to any of you: 
Not because we have not power, but to make ourselves an ensample unto you to follow us. 
For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat. 
For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies. 
Now them that are such we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread. 
But ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing. 
And if any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and have no company with him, that he may be ashamed. 
Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. 
Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means. The Lord be with you all. 
The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write. 
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. 
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope; 
Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord. 
As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine, 
Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith: so do. 
Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned: 
From which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling; 
Desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm. 
But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully; 
Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, 
For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine; 
According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. 
And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry; 
Who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. 
And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 
This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief. 
Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting. 
Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare; 
Holding faith, and a good conscience; which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck: 
Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. 
I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; 
For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. 
For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour; 
