And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely the LORD's anointed is before him. 
But the LORD said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for the LORD seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the LORD looketh on the heart. 
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath the LORD chosen this. 
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath the LORD chosen this. 
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The LORD hath not chosen these. 
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither. 
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look to. And the LORD said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he. 
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of the LORD came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah. 
But the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled him. 
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee. 
Let our lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man, who is a cunning player on an harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well. 
And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me. 
Then answered one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, that is cunning in playing, and a mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a comely person, and the LORD is with him. 
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep. 
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul. 
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armourbearer. 
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favour in my sight. 
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took an harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. 
Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah, and pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim. 
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. 
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them. 
And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. 
And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass. 
And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders. 
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him. 
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me. 
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us. 
And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together. 
When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid. 
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul. 
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah. 
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul. 
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem. 
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days. 
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched corn, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp of thy brethren; 
And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge. 
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines. 
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host was going forth to the fight, and shouted for the battle. 
For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against army. 
And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren. 
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them. 
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid. 
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel. 
And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God? 
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him. 
And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. 
And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? 
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner. 
And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul: and he sent for him. 
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. 
