And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt. 
And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call me Ishi; and shalt call me no more Baali. 
For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be remembered by their name. 
And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field and with the fowls of heaven, and with the creeping things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely. 
And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness, and in mercies. 
I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt know the LORD. 
And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the LORD, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; 
And the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they shall hear Jezreel. 
And I will sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to them which were not my people, Thou art my people; and they shall say, Thou art my God. 
Then said the LORD unto me, Go yet, love a woman beloved of her friend, yet an adulteress, according to the love of the LORD toward the children of Israel, who look to other gods, and love flagons of wine. 
So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for an homer of barley, and an half homer of barley: 
And I said unto her, Thou shalt abide for me many days; thou shalt not play the harlot, and thou shalt not be for another man: so will I also be for thee. 
For the children of Israel shall abide many days without a king, and without a prince, and without a sacrifice, and without an image, and without an ephod, and without teraphim: 
Afterward shall the children of Israel return, and seek the LORD their God, and David their king; and shall fear the LORD and his goodness in the latter days. 
Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land. 
By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood. 
Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away. 
Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: for thy people are as they that strive with the priest. 
Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother. 
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children. 
As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore will I change their glory into shame. 
They eat up the sin of my people, and they set their heart on their iniquity. 
And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish them for their ways, and reward them their doings. 
For they shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take heed to the LORD. 
Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart. 
My people ask counsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hath caused them to err, and they have gone a whoring from under their God. 
They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters shall commit whoredom, and your spouses shall commit adultery. 
I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor your spouses when they commit adultery: for themselves are separated with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore the people that doth not understand shall fall. 
Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend; and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear, The LORD liveth. 
For Israel slideth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD will feed them as a lamb in a large place. 
Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone. 
Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom continually: her rulers with shame do love, Give ye. 
The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices. 
Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor. 
And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have been a rebuker of them all. 
I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim, thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled. 
They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known the LORD. 
And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity: Judah also shall fall with them. 
They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from them. 
They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their portions. 
Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud at Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin. 
Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be. 
The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound: therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water. 
Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly walked after the commandment. 
Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness. 
When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal you, nor cure you of your wound. 
For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away, and none shall rescue him. 
I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me early. 
Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up. 
After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight. 
