For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it: 
And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers. 
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace, 
To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood: 
Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus. 
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days. 
But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother. 
Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie not. 
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia; 
And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ: 
But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed. 
And they glorified God in me. 
Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also. 
And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which were of reputation, lest by any means I should run, or had run, in vain. 
But neither Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised: 
And that because of false brethren unawares brought in, who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage: 
To whom we gave place by subjection, no, not for an hour; that the truth of the gospel might continue with you. 
But of these who seemed to be somewhat, (whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man's person:) for they who seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me: 
But contrariwise, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as the gospel of the circumcision was unto Peter; 
(For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles:) 
And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship; that we should go unto the heathen, and they unto the circumcision. 
Only they would that we should remember the poor; the same which I also was forward to do. 
But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed. 
For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision. 
And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him; insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimulation. 
But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews? 
We who are Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles, 
Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. 
But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God forbid. 
For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor. 
For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God. 
I am crucified with Christ: neverthless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me. 
I do not frustrate the grace of God: for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. 
O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you? 
This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? 
Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh? 
Have ye suffered so many things in vain? if it be yet in vain. 
He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith? 
Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. 
Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. 
And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. 
So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. 
For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. 
But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident: for, The just shall live by faith. 
And the law is not of faith: but, The man that doeth them shall live in them. 
Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree: 
That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. 
Brethren, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth thereto. 
Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ. 
And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect. 
