Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. 
And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come. 
Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the tree is known by his fruit. 
O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. 
A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. 
But I say unto you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. 
For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. 
Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. 
But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas: 
For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. 
The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: because they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here. 
The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here. 
When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none. 
Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished. 
Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation. 
While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him. 
Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee. 
But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren? 
And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! 
For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother. 
The same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea side. 
And great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship, and sat; and the whole multitude stood on the shore. 
And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow; 
And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them up: 
Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: 
And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. 
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: 
But other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold. 
Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. 
And the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? 
He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. 
For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. 
Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. 
And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and shall not perceive: 
For this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; lest at any time they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, and should understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them. 
But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear. 
For verily I say unto you, That many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them. 
Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. 
When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side. 
But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it; 
Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. 
He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. 
But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. 
Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field: 
But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way. 
But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. 
So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? from whence then hath it tares? 
He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? 
But he said, Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. 
Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn. 
