Ye have wearied the LORD with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of the LORD, and he delighteth in them; or, Where is the God of judgment? 
Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the LORD, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of hosts. 
But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap: 
And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the LORD an offering in righteousness. 
Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the LORD, as in the days of old, and as in former years. 
And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear not me, saith the LORD of hosts. 
For I am the LORD, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. 
Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the LORD of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall we return? 
Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. 
Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. 
Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. 
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the LORD of hosts. 
And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the LORD of hosts. 
Your words have been stout against me, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee? 
Ye have said, It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the LORD of hosts? 
And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered. 
Then they that feared the LORD spake often one to another: and the LORD hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the LORD, and that thought upon his name. 
And they shall be mine, saith the LORD of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. 
Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not. 
For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the LORD of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. 
But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall. 
And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the LORD of hosts. 
Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments. 
Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the LORD: 
And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. 
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. 
Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren; 
And Judas begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares begat Esrom; and Esrom begat Aram; 
And Aram begat Aminadab; and Aminadab begat Naasson; and Naasson begat Salmon; 
And Salmon begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse; 
And Jesse begat David the king; and David the king begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Urias; 
And Solomon begat Roboam; and Roboam begat Abia; and Abia begat Asa; 
And Asa begat Josaphat; and Josaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Ozias; 
And Ozias begat Joatham; and Joatham begat Achaz; and Achaz begat Ezekias; 
And Ezekias begat Manasses; and Manasses begat Amon; and Amon begat Josias; 
And Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, about the time they were carried away to Babylon: 
And after they were brought to Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel; and Salathiel begat Zorobabel; 
And Zorobabel begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim; and Eliakim begat Azor; 
And Azor begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat Achim; and Achim begat Eliud; 
And Eliud begat Eleazar; and Eleazar begat Matthan; and Matthan begat Jacob; 
And Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. 
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David until the carrying away into Babylon are fourteen generations; and from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations. 
Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. 
Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily. 
But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. 
And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins. 
Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, 
Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. 
Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife: 
And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS. 
