Notwithstanding the cities of the Levites, and the houses of the cities of their possession, may the Levites redeem at any time. 
And if a man purchase of the Levites, then the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, shall go out in the year of jubile: for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel. 
But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession. 
And if thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee; then thou shalt relieve him: yea, though he be a stranger, or a sojourner; that he may live with thee. 
Take thou no usury of him, or increase: but fear thy God; that thy brother may live with thee. 
Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy victuals for increase. 
I am the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God. 
And if thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bondservant: 
But as an hired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with thee, and shall serve thee unto the year of jubile. 
And then shall he depart from thee, both he and his children with him, and shall return unto his own family, and unto the possession of his fathers shall he return. 
For they are my servants, which I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmen. 
Thou shalt not rule over him with rigour; but shalt fear thy God. 
Both thy bondmen, and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have, shall be of the heathen that are round about you; of them shall ye buy bondmen and bondmaids. 
Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they begat in your land: and they shall be your possession. 
And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession; they shall be your bondmen for ever: but over your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with rigour. 
And if a sojourner or stranger wax rich by thee, and thy brother that dwelleth by him wax poor, and sell himself unto the stranger or sojourner by thee, or to the stock of the stranger's family: 
After that he is sold he may be redeemed again; one of his brethren may redeem him: 
Either his uncle, or his uncle's son, may redeem him, or any that is nigh of kin unto him of his family may redeem him; or if he be able, he may redeem himself. 
And he shall reckon with him that bought him from the year that he was sold to him unto the year of jubile: and the price of his sale shall be according unto the number of years, according to the time of an hired servant shall it be with him. 
If there be yet many years behind, according unto them he shall give again the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for. 
And if there remain but few years unto the year of jubile, then he shall count with him, and according unto his years shall he give him again the price of his redemption. 
And as a yearly hired servant shall he be with him: and the other shall not rule with rigour over him in thy sight. 
And if he be not redeemed in these years, then he shall go out in the year of jubile, both he, and his children with him. 
For unto me the children of Israel are servants; they are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God. 
Ye shall make you no idols nor graven image, neither rear you up a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am the LORD your God. 
Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD. 
If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them; 
Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. 
And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely. 
And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will rid evil beasts out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land. 
And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. 
And five of you shall chase an hundred, and an hundred of you shall put ten thousand to flight: and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. 
For I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you. 
And ye shall eat old store, and bring forth the old because of the new. 
And I set my tabernacle among you: and my soul shall not abhor you. 
And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be my people. 
I am the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have broken the bands of your yoke, and made you go upright. 
But if ye will not hearken unto me, and will not do all these commandments; 
And if ye shall despise my statutes, or if your soul abhor my judgments, so that ye will not do all my commandments, but that ye break my covenant: 
I also will do this unto you; I will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague, that shall consume the eyes, and cause sorrow of heart: and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. 
And I will set my face against you, and ye shall be slain before your enemies: they that hate you shall reign over you; and ye shall flee when none pursueth you. 
And if ye will not yet for all this hearken unto me, then I will punish you seven times more for your sins. 
And I will break the pride of your power; and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass: 
And your strength shall be spent in vain: for your land shall not yield her increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits. 
And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto me; I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins. 
I will also send wild beasts among you, which shall rob you of your children, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number; and your high ways shall be desolate. 
And if ye will not be reformed by me by these things, but will walk contrary unto me; 
Then will I also walk contrary unto you, and will punish you yet seven times for your sins. 
And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall avenge the quarrel of my covenant: and when ye are gathered together within your cities, I will send the pestilence among you; and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy. 
And when I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver you your bread again by weight: and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied. 
