And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will persuade him. 
And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt persude him, and prevail also: go forth, and do so. 
Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil concerning thee. 
But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me to speak unto thee? 
And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself. 
And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son; 
And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come in peace. 
And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the LORD hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you. 
So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramothgilead. 
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle. 
But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel. 
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out. 
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him. 
And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am wounded. 
And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot. 
And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to his own country. 
So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the king in Samaria. 
And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the word of the LORD which he spake. 
Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? 
So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. 
And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. 
Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. 
And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the LORD: nevertheless the high places were not taken away; for the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high places. 
And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. 
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he shewed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? 
And the remnant of the sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out of the land. 
There was then no king in Edom: a deputy was king. 
Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber. 
Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not. 
And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. 
Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. 
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin: 
For he served Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel, according to all that his father had done. 
Adam, Sheth, Enosh, 
Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered, 
Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech, 
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. 
And the sons of Gomer; Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. 
And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
The sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan. 
And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be mighty upon the earth. 
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, 
And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (of whom came the Philistines,) and Caphthorim. 
And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth, 
The Jebusite also, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, 
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. 
The sons of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech. 
