Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me? 
When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaints; 
Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions: 
So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death rather than my life. 
I loathe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days are vanity. 
What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him? 
And that thou shouldest visit him every morning, and try him every moment? 
How long wilt thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle? 
I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so that I am a burden to myself? 
And why dost thou not pardon my transgression, and take away my iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I shall not be. 
Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 
How long wilt thou speak these things? and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind? 
Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty pervert justice? 
If thy children have sinned against him, and he have cast them away for their transgression; 
If thou wouldest seek unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty; 
If thou wert pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous. 
Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase. 
For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself to the search of their fathers: 
(For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:) 
Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their heart? 
Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow without water? 
Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut down, it withereth before any other herb. 
So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope shall perish: 
Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall be a spider's web. 
He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall hold it fast, but it shall not endure. 
He is green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his garden. 
His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth the place of stones. 
If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him, saying, I have not seen thee. 
Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall others grow. 
Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he help the evil doers: 
Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and thy lips with rejoicing. 
They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to nought. 
Then Job answered and said, 
I know it is so of a truth: but how should man be just with God? 
If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand. 
He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered? 
Which removeth the mountains, and they know not: which overturneth them in his anger. 
Which shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble. 
Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the stars. 
Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea. 
Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south. 
Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders without number. 
Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: he passeth on also, but I perceive him not. 
Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say unto him, What doest thou? 
If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him. 
How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to reason with him? 
Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer, but I would make supplication to my judge. 
If I had called, and he had answered me; yet would I not believe that he had hearkened unto my voice. 
For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause. 
He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness. 
