Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them. 
Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. 
The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender. 
He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail. 
He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor. 
Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease. 
He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend. 
The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the words of the transgressor. 
The slothful man saith, There is a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets. 
The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the LORD shall fall therein. 
Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. 
He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want. 
Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thine heart unto my knowledge. 
For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they shall withal be fitted in thy lips. 
That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to thee this day, even to thee. 
Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge, 
That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee? 
Rob not the poor, because he is poor: neither oppress the afflicted in the gate: 
For the LORD will plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them. 
Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go: 
Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul. 
Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are sureties for debts. 
If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee? 
Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set. 
Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men. 
When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee: 
And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite. 
Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat. 
Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom. 
Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven. 
Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainty meats: 
For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee. 
The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words. 
Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom of thy words. 
Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless: 
For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead their cause with thee. 
Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge. 
Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die. 
Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell. 
My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine. 
Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things. 
Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the LORD all the day long. 
For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be cut off. 
Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way. 
Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh: 
For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags. 
Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old. 
Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding. 
The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him. 
Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee shall rejoice. 
