He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass. 
The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness. 
He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city. 
The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is of the LORD. 
Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house full of sacrifices with strife. 
A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren. 
The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the LORD trieth the hearts. 
A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to a naughty tongue. 
Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished. 
Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers. 
Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a prince. 
A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth. 
He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends. 
A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes into a fool. 
An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him. 
Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly. 
Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house. 
The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water: therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with. 
He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the LORD. 
Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no heart to it? 
A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity. 
A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety in the presence of his friend. 
He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth his gate seeketh destruction. 
He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into mischief. 
He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father of a fool hath no joy. 
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones. 
A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways of judgment. 
Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth. 
A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him. 
Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for equity. 
He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit. 
Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding. 
Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom. 
A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself. 
When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach. 
The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook. 
It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow the righteous in judgment. 
A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes. 
A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul. 
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly. 
He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. 
The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe. 
The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit. 
Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour is humility. 
He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him. 
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear? 
The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge. 
A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men. 
He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him. 
The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty. 
