My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness. 
Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts. 
I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law is my delight. 
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me. 
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments. 
In my distress I cried unto the LORD, and he heard me. 
Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue. 
What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue? 
Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper. 
Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar! 
My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace. 
I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war. 
I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. 
My help cometh from the LORD, which made heaven and earth. 
He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber. 
Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. 
The LORD is thy keeper: the LORD is thy shade upon thy right hand. 
The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. 
The LORD shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul. 
The LORD shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore. 
I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the LORD. 
Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem. 
Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together: 
Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the LORD. 
For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David. 
Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee. 
Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces. 
For my brethren and companions' sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee. 
Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek thy good. 
Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens. 
Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon the LORD our God, until that he have mercy upon us. 
Have mercy upon us, O LORD, have mercy upon us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt. 
Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud. 
If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, now may Israel say; 
If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, when men rose up against us: 
Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was kindled against us: 
Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul: 
Then the proud waters had gone over our soul. 
Blessed be the LORD, who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth. 
Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped. 
Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth. 
They that trust in the LORD shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever. 
As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people from henceforth even for ever. 
For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity. 
Do good, O LORD, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts. 
As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the LORD shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel. 
When the LORD turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream. 
Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The LORD hath done great things for them. 
The LORD hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad. 
Turn again our captivity, O LORD, as the streams in the south. 
