But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. 
And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. 
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. 
And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? 
And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, 
Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. 
And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. 
And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. 
But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. 
And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? 
Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. 
And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet. 
And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? 
And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. 
And he took it, and did eat before them. 
And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. 
Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, 
And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day: 
And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. 
And ye are witnesses of these things. 
And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. 
And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. 
And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. 
And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: 
And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen. 
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. 
The same was in the beginning with God. 
All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. 
In him was life; and the life was the light of men. 
And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. 
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. 
The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. 
He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. 
That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. 
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. 
He came unto his own, and his own received him not. 
But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: 
Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. 
And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth. 
John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me. 
And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace. 
For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. 
No man hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. 
And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? 
And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ. 
And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No. 
Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? 
He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias. 
And they which were sent were of the Pharisees. 
And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet? 
