And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz. 
And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife. 
And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife. 
And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. 
These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz, 
Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah. 
And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife. 
And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife. 
These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes. 
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 
And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom. 
And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna. 
And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father. 
And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah. 
And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. 
The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. 
The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran. 
These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 
Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir. 
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel. 
And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. 
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead. 
And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith. 
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. 
And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead. 
And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. 
And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon, 
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of the Edomites. 
And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. 
These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report. 
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours. 
And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. 
And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more. 
And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed: 
For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. 
And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words. 
And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me. 
And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? 
And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying. 
And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. 
And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I. 
And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem. 
And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? 
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks. 
And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan. 
