And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are. 
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. 
And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. 
I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. 
I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. 
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. 
Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth. 
As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. 
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. 
Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; 
That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. 
And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as we are one: 
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me. 
Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. 
O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. 
And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them. 
When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples. 
And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples. 
Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. 
Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye? 
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. 
As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground. 
Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 
Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore ye seek me, let these go their way: 
That the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost none. 
Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. 
Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it? 
Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him, 
And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year. 
Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people. 
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple: that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest. 
But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter. 
Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not. 
And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself. 
The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine. 
Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing. 
Why askest thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said unto them: behold, they know what I said. 
And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so? 
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me? 
Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest. 
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not. 
One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him? 
Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew. 
Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled; but that they might eat the passover. 
Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? 
They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. 
Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death: 
That the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die. 
Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? 
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me? 
