And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had. 
And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. 
And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him. 
And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. 
And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. 
And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. 
And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. 
And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. 
And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. 
Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank. 
And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids. 
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost. 
And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother. 
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept. 
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant. 
Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. 
And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves. 
And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord. 
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself. 
And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me. 
Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he took it. 
And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee. 
And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die. 
Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir. 
And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the sight of my lord. 
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir. 
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth. 
And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city. 
And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred pieces of money. 
And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael. 
And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. 
And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her. 
And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel. 
And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife. 
And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come. 
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him. 
And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter: which thing ought not to be done. 
And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife. 
And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you. 
And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein. 
And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give. 
Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife. 
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister: 
And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us: 
But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised; 
Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. 
But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone. 
And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son. 
And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the house of his father. 
And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying, 
