He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel. 
He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD. 
Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights. 
Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts. 
Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light. 
Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens. 
Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created. 
He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass. 
Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps: 
Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word: 
Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars: 
Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl: 
Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth: 
Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children: 
Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven. 
He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD. 
Praise ye the LORD. Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints. 
Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King. 
Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp. 
For the LORD taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation. 
Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds. 
Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand; 
To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people; 
To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron; 
To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints. Praise ye the LORD. 
Praise ye the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power. 
Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness. 
Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp. 
Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs. 
Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high sounding cymbals. 
Let every thing that hath breath praise the LORD. Praise ye the LORD. 
The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; 
To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding; 
To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity; 
To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. 
A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels: 
To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings. 
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction. 
My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: 
For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck. 
My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. 
If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause: 
Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit: 
We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil: 
Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse: 
My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path: 
For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood. 
Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird. 
And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for their own lives. 
So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh away the life of the owners thereof. 
