But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him. 
And he came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? 
But they held their peace: for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be the greatest. 
And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all. 
And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 
Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. 
And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and he followeth not us: and we forbad him, because he followeth not us. 
But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me. 
For he that is not against us is on our part. 
For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward. 
And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea. 
And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched: 
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched: 
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire: 
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. 
Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with another. 
And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by the farther side of Jordan: and the people resort unto him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again. 
And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him. 
And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you? 
And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away. 
And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept. 
But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female. 
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; 
And they twain shall be one flesh: so then they are no more twain, but one flesh. 
What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 
And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter. 
And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her. 
And if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery. 
And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them. 
But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. 
And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them. 
And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? 
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God. 
Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy father and mother. 
And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth. 
Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me. 
And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions. 
And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! 
And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 
And they were astonished out of measure, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved? 
And Jesus looking upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible. 
Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee. 
And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel's, 
But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life. 
But many that are first shall be last; and the last first. 
