The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas. 
O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! 
I will praise thee, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works. 
I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High. 
When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence. 
For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right. 
Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever. 
O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them. 
But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment. 
And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness. 
The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble. 
And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. 
Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings. 
When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble. 
Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death: 
That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation. 
The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken. 
The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah. 
The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God. 
For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever. 
Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight. 
Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah. 
Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble? 
The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined. 
For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth. 
The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts. 
His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them. 
He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall never be in adversity. 
His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and vanity. 
He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor. 
He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net. 
He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones. 
He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see it. 
Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble. 
Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it. 
Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless. 
Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his wickedness till thou find none. 
The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land. 
LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear: 
To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress. 
In the LORD put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain? 
For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. 
If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? 
The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven: his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men. 
The LORD trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth violence his soul hateth. 
Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup. 
For the righteous LORD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth behold the upright. 
Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from among the children of men. 
They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak. 
The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things: 
