But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons. 
Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live? 
For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness. 
Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. 
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees; 
And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed. 
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord: 
Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled; 
Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. 
For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. 
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest, 
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more: 
(For they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart: 
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:) 
But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels, 
To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, 
And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things that that of Abel. 
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven: 
Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. 
And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. 
Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear: 
For our God is a consuming fire. 
Let brotherly love continue. 
Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. 
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body. 
Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge. 
Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. 
So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. 
Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. 
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever. 
Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. 
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle. 
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp. 
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. 
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. 
For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come. 
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name. 
But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 
Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you. 
Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly. 
But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner. 
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, 
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. 
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I have written a letter unto you in few words. 
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you. 
Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you. 
Grace be with you all. Amen. 
James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. 
My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations; 
Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. 
