Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, happy is that people, whose God is the LORD. 
I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever. 
Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. 
Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable. 
One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. 
I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works. 
And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness. 
They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness. 
The LORD is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy. 
The LORD is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works. 
All thy works shall praise thee, O LORD; and thy saints shall bless thee. 
They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power; 
To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. 
Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. 
The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down. 
The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season. 
Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. 
The LORD is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works. 
The LORD is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. 
He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them. 
The LORD preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy. 
My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever. 
Praise ye the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul. 
While I live will I praise the LORD: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being. 
Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help. 
His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish. 
Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the LORD his God: 
Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever: 
Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. The LORD looseth the prisoners: 
The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raiseth them that are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous: 
The LORD preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down. 
The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye the LORD. 
Praise ye the LORD: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely. 
The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel. 
He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds. 
He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names. 
Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite. 
The LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground. 
Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God: 
Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains. 
He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry. 
He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man. 
The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy. 
Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion. 
For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee. 
He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat. 
He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth very swiftly. 
He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes. 
He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold? 
He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow. 
