And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. 
And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. 
But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities. 
And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed. 
And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them. 
And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him. 
And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus. 
And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee. 
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone? 
But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye in your hearts? 
Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk? 
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thine house. 
And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God. 
And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day. 
And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me. 
And he left all, rose up, and followed him. 
And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them. 
But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? 
And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick. 
I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. 
And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink? 
And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? 
But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days. 
And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a rent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old. 
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish. 
But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved. 
No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: for he saith, The old is better. 
And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands. 
And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful to do on the sabbath days? 
And Jesus answering them said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was an hungred, and they which were with him; 
How he went into the house of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the priests alone? 
And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath. 
And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was withered. 
And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him. 
But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth. 
Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it? 
And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other. 
And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus. 
And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. 
And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; 
Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, 
Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, 
And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor. 
And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 
And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed. 
And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all. 
And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God. 
Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh. 
Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake. 
Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets. 
