Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground. 
The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah. 
How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire? 
Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain? 
What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah. 
Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth? 
Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people; 
Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. 
Blessed be the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen. 
Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. 
Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. 
Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men. 
For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night. 
Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which groweth up. 
In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth. 
For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. 
Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. 
For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told. 
The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. 
Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. 
So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. 
Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants. 
O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. 
Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil. 
Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. 
And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it. 
He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. 
I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust. 
Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. 
He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler. 
Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day; 
Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. 
A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. 
Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. 
Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation; 
There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. 
For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. 
They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. 
Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. 
Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. 
He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him. 
With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation. 
IT IS A GOOD THING TO GIVE THANKS UNTO THE LORD, AND TO SING PRAISES UNTO THY NAME, O MOST HIGH: 
To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night, 
Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound. 
For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands. 
O LORD, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep. 
A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this. 
When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever: 
But thou, LORD, art most high for evermore. 
