Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets: 
She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying, 
How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge? 
Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you. 
Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded; 
But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof: 
I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; 
When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you. 
Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me: 
For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD: 
They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof. 
Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices. 
For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them. 
But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil. 
My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee; 
So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding; 
Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding; 
If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures; 
Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God. 
For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. 
He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. 
He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints. 
Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; yea, every good path. 
When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul; 
Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee: 
To deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh froward things; 
Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness; 
Who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked; 
Whose ways are crooked, and they froward in their paths: 
To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words; 
Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God. 
For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead. 
None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life. 
That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous. 
For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it. 
But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it. 
My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments: 
For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee. 
Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart: 
So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man. 
Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. 
In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. 
Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil. 
It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. 
Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase: 
So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. 
My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction: 
For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth. 
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. 
For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. 
