And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah. 
And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt. 
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold. 
And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew. 
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD. 
This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him; 
Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created. 
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: 
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died. 
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 
And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died. 
And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 
And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died. 
And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 
And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died. 
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died. 
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch: 
And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died. 
And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: 
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years: 
And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him. 
And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech. 
And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died. 
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son: 
And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed. 
And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters: 
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died. 
And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, 
That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose. 
And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years. 
There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown. 
And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. 
And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. 
And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them. 
But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD. 
These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. 
And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. 
And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. 
And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth. 
