Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracles. 
If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. 
And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, 
Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. 
And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation; 
And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. 
Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death. 
Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples. 
And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves. 
Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast? 
Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that they might take him. 
Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. 
There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. 
Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment. 
Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, 
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor? 
This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein. 
Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying hath she kept this. 
For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always. 
Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. 
But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death; 
Because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus. 
On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 
Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. 
And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written, 
Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. 
These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. 
The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record. 
For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. 
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him. 
And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast: 
The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. 
Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. 
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. 
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. 
He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. 
If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will my Father honour. 
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. 
Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. 
The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it thundered: others said, An angel spake to him. 
Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. 
Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. 
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. 
This he said, signifying what death he should die. 
The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man? 
Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. 
While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them. 
But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him: 
That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? 
Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again, 
