I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree, and the pine, and the box tree together: 
That they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the LORD hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it. 
Produce your cause, saith the LORD; bring forth your strong reasons, saith the King of Jacob. 
Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come. 
Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and behold it together. 
Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work of nought: an abomination is he that chooseth you. 
I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come: from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon princes as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay. 
Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is none that sheweth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that heareth your words. 
The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings. 
For I beheld, and there was no man; even among them, and there was no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word. 
Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing: their molten images are wind and confusion. 
Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. 
He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. 
A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth. 
He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law. 
Thus saith God the LORD, he that created the heavens, and stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein: 
I the LORD have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles; 
To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. 
I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. 
Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them. 
Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the isles, and the inhabitants thereof. 
Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains. 
Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare his praise in the islands. 
The LORD shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up jealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail against his enemies. 
I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and refrained myself: now will I cry like a travailing woman; I will destroy and devour at once. 
I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools. 
And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them. 
They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that trust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye are our gods. 
Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see. 
Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I sent? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the LORD's servant? 
Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not. 
The LORD is well pleased for his righteousness' sake; he will magnify the law, and make it honourable. 
But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore. 
Who among you will give ear to this? who will hearken and hear for the time to come? 
Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not the LORD, he against whom we have sinned? for they would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto his law. 
Therefore he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger, and the strength of battle: and it hath set him on fire round about, yet he knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart. 
But now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine. 
When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. 
For I am the LORD thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee. 
Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honourable, and I have loved thee: therefore will I give men for thee, and people for thy life. 
Fear not: for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west; 
I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth; 
Even every one that is called by my name: for I have created him for my glory, I have formed him; yea, I have made him. 
Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears. 
Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people be assembled: who among them can declare this, and shew us former things? let them bring forth their witnesses, that they may be justified: or let them hear, and say, It is truth. 
Ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. 
I, even I, am the LORD; and beside me there is no saviour. 
I have declared, and have saved, and I have shewed, when there was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, that I am God. 
Yea, before the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall let it? 
Thus saith the LORD, your redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their nobles, and the Chaldeans, whose cry is in the ships. 
